<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">10691786</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">GB</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">9105750</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">GB9105750A</idno></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">G03F7/004D</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">G03F7/022M</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302146</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302146A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="references-cited"><list type="citations"><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0146411</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0146411A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0330239</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0330239A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0424124</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0424124A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">AP</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">FR</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">2325076</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">FR2325076A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">XD</idno></item></list></item><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>HAURI ROBERT J</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>NEWMAN STEPHEN</persName><residence><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>HAURI, ROBERT J.</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>NEWMAN, STEPHEN</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>Hauri, Robert J., c/o 3M Centre</persName><residence><address><addrLine>Building 235-1B-24</addrLine><settlement>St. Paul, Minnesota 55144</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>NEWMAN, STEPHEN</persName><residence><address><addrLine>33 Manston Drive</addrLine><settlement>Bishops Stortford,Herts. CM23 5EJ</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>MINNESOTA MINING &amp; MFG</name><address><country type="national">US</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY</name></item><item type="original"><name>MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY</name><address><addrLine>3M Center, P.O. Box 33427</addrLine><settlement>St. Paul, Minnesota 55133-3427</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>DE</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/00        20060101AFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/00        20060101CFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/004       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/004       20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/022       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/022       20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/029       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/029       20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/039       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G03F   7/039       20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/02        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/027       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Positivarbeitende Fotoresistzusammensetzungen mit stabilisierter Geschwindigkeit.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Speed stabilised positive-acting photoresist compositions.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Compositions comportant photoréserves ayant des réponses stabilisées.</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505094</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode><date>19920923</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505094A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front><div type="abstract" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_b1191">A positive-acting photoresist comprising in one 
or more layers 
(i) a resin binder, (ii) a photo-acid generator, and (iii) an acid-cleavable compound, </p><p xml:id="_3f93a">characterised in that the photoresist medium further 
comprises as a speed stabilising agent one or more 
compounds having a nucleus of general formula (I): 
</p><p xml:id="_edd90">in which;
 
   R represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally 
substituted alkyl group comprising up to 10 carbon atoms. </p></div></front><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a0f1d">A positive-acting photoresist comprising in one or 
more layers 
<list type="simple"><item>(i) a resin binder, </item><item>(ii) a photo-acid generator, and </item><item>(iii) an acid-cleavable compound, </item></list> 
characterised in that the photoresist medium further 
comprises as a speed stabilising agent one or more 
compounds having a nucleus of general formula (I): 
 
in which; 
   R represents a hydrogen atom or an optionally 
substituted alkyl group comprising up to 10 carbon atoms. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_93166">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in Claim 1 
in which R represents a substituted alkyl group 
possessing one or more substituents selected from 
hydroxy, nitro groups, halogen atoms, alkoxy groups 
comprising up to 5 carbon atoms and ester groups 
comprising up to 5 carbon atoms and the phenyl ring of 
the speed stabilising agent possesses one or more 
substituents selected from nitro groups, halogen atoms 
and alkyl groups comprising up to 10 carbon atoms. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2f86b">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in Claims 1 
or 2 in which the speed stabilising agent is selected 
from benzene sulphonamide, N-ethyl-p-toluene 
sulphonamide, N-ethyl-o-toluene sulphonamide, N-butyl-p-toluene 
sulphonamide, o-tolune sulphonamide , p-toluene 
sulphonamide and mixtures thereof. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ece26">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in any 
preceding Claim in which the compound(s) of general 
formula (I) comprise up to 25% by weight of the total 
solids content of the photosensitive medium. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_72572">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in any 
preceding Claim in which the resin binder is selected 
from resoles, novolacs and mixture thereof, a hydroxystyrene 
copolymer or a derivative thereof. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_dd131">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in any 
preceding Claim in which the photo-acid generator 
comprises from 0.1 to 20.0 % by weight of the 
photosensitive medium and is selected from sulphonium 
salts, iodonium salts, phosphonium salts, diazonium 
salts, quinone diazide sulfochlorides, bis(trichloromethyl)-s-triazines, 
trichloromethylpyrones, mixtures of 
organometals and organohalogen compounds and combinations 
thereof. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c9ac6">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in Claim 6 
in which the photo-acid generator is an iodonium salt of 
general formula (II): 
 
in which; 
   Ar¹ and Ar² independently represent aromatic or 
hetero-aromatic groups comprising up to 10 ring atoms 
which may be linked together to include the iodine atom 
within a ring structure, and 
   X⊖ is an anion such that HX is an acid 
of ka 
not greater than 3. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a4752">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in any 
preceding Claim in which the acid-cleavable compound 
comprises from 5 to 30% by weight and is selected from 
adducts of vinyl ethers with phenols or sulphonamides, 
polyacetals, polyketals, enol ethers, N-acyliminocarbonates, 
polymeric orthoesters, t-alkyl 
esters and carbonates, cyclic acetals and ketals of beta-ketocarbonyl 
compounds, silyl ether compounds, silyl 
ureido compounds and pyranyl or furanyl ethers of a 
bisphenol. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9430b">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in Claim 8 
in which the acid-cleavable compound has a nucleus of 
general formula (III): 
 
in which; 
   n is 0, 1, 2 or 3, 
   each R¹, R² and R³ independently represents a 
hydrogen atom or an alkyl group comprising up to 4 carbon 
atoms, 
   R⁴ and R⁵ independently represent a hydrogen atom or 
one or more ring substituents selected from halogen 
atoms, alkyl groups comprising up to 4 carbon atoms, 
alkoxy groups comprising up to 4 carbon atoms and 
combinations thereof, and 
   A represents a bond or a divalent linking group 
comprising up to 10 atoms other than hydrogen. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1f4a9">A positive-acting photoresist as claimed in Claim 9 
in which the compound of general formula (III) has a 
nucleus of one of the following structures: 
 
and, 
</p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_35e1c">A photoresist as claimed in any preceding Claim 
further comprising up to 15% by weight of a sensitiser. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_1ed3b">This invention relates to positive-acting 
photoresists and in particular to positive-acting 
photoresists having a photosensitive media comprising a 
resin binder, photo-acid generator, an acid cleavable 
compound and as a speed stabilising agent one or more 
arylsulphonamide derivatives of defined structure. </p><p xml:id="_83654">Positive-acting photoresists find widespread use in 
fields such as lithographic printing, proofing and 
microlithography and are characterised by their ability 
to become more soluble in an appropriate developer when 
irradiated with light of a suitable wavelength. The vast 
majority of positive resists available on the market 
comprise an alkali-soluble resin, normally a phenol-formaldehyde 
resin, and a light-sensitive solubility 
inhibitor. Photolysis of the latter results in an 
increase in solubility. Most commonly, the solubility 
inhibitor is a diazonaphthoquinone derivative (also known 
as a quinone diazide, or a diazo-oxide). U.S. Patent No. 
4,708,925 discloses the use of onium salts as solubility 
inhibitors. In recent years, there has been considerable 
emphasis on increasing the photosensitivity of positive 
resists by providing chemical amplification of the 
initial photochemical process. </p> <p xml:id="_693ac">This is most often achieved by formulating a 
suitable binder, typically, a phenolic resin, with a 
photo-acid generator and an acid-cleavable compound. 
Examples of such systems are disclosed in U.S. Patent 
Specification Nos. 3,779,778, 4,247,611, 4,248,957, 
4,250,247, 4,311,782, European Patent Publication Nos. 
202196 and 249139, German Patent No. 3601264 and Japanese 
Patent Application No. 62-059949. The acid cleavable 
compound is a compound which converts catalytically in 
the presence of acid from an insoluble (or insolubilising)  
 
form to a soluble (or non-insolubilising) form. The 
mechanism may involve, for example, cleavage of a polymer 
to low molecular weight fragments, or conversion of non-polar 
groups into polar derivatives, but the end result 
is that the initial photochemical event (photogeneration 
of acid) is amplified into the cleavage of large numbers 
of bonds. </p><p xml:id="_49ebd">A problem that has arisen with compositions of the 
above type is that of shelf-stability. Although high 
imaging speeds are obtained for freshly-coated materials, 
storage over a period of weeks can result in serious 
losses in speed. The problem also manifests itself as a 
variation in speed with the time interval between 
exposure and development. Thus, an aged coating 
developed immediately after exposure will exhibit a 
slower speed than one whose development is delayed for 
some time, e.g., one hour. Another manifestation of the 
problem is variation of the "soak time", that is, the 
time taken by the exposed coating to dissolve completely 
in the developer. Ideally, this should be constant, but 
has been found to increase as the coating ages, and to 
vary with the time interval between exposure and 
development. Although all these effects may be 
eliminated to a large extent by briefly heating the 
coating, either immediately before or immediately after 
the exposure, obviously it is preferable that the 
coatings should exhibit a stable photoresponse over a 
period of months or years without recourse to special 
treatments or techniques. </p><p xml:id="_1a587">European Patent Publication No. 290916 discloses one 
solution to the problem in the form of a barrier layer of 
poly(vinyl alcohol) or similar materials coated on top 
of the photosensitive layer of the photoresist. The 
present invention provides an alternative solution by the 
addition of aryl sulphonamides of defined formula to the 
photosensitive layer, thereby obviating the need for two 
coating trips.  </p><p xml:id="_40079">French Patent Specification No. 2325076 discloses a 
range of compounds as additives to a conventional 
positive resist formulation comprising a phenol-formaldehyde 
resin and a diazonaphthoquinone. The 
compounds are said to provide an improved photo-speed 
and contrast. Sulphonamides are included in the range of 
compounds. There is no mention of positive resists of 
the chemically amplified type, comprising a photo-acid 
generator and acid-cleavable compound. </p><p xml:id="_5ef3a">The present invention seeks to provide speed-stabilised 
positive-acting photoresist compositions, 
particularly for use in the manufacture of printing 
plates, having a more stable response over a given period 
when compared with conventional amplified photo-resist 
systems. </p> <p xml:id="_9a391">According to the present invention there is provided 
a positive-acting photoresist comprising in one or more 
layers: 
(i) a resin binder,  (ii) a photo-acid generator, and  (iii) an acid-cleavable compound, </p><p xml:id="_55758">characterised in that the photoresist medium further 
comprises as a speed stabilising agent one or more 
compounds having a nucleus of general formula (I): 
</p><p xml:id="_ae6d4">in which;
 
   R represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group 
comprising up to 10 carbon atoms, preferably up to 6 
carbon atoms, which may optionally possess one or more 
substituents selected from hydroxy, nitro, halogen atoms, 
alkoxy groups comprising up to 5 carbon atoms and ester  
 
groups comprising up to 5 carbon atoms. R preferably 
represents a hydrogen atom or an alkyl moiety selected 
from methyl, ethyl, propyl and butyl. </p><p xml:id="_0ee85">In addition to the speed stabilising agent of 
Formula I, the positive-acting photoresists of the 
invention comprise:
 
   a resin binder, which is readily soluble in a 
developer solution, e.g., aqueous alkali;
 
   an acid-cleavable compound having the property of 
retarding/suppressing the dissolution of the resin binder 
and
 
   a photo-acid generator which upon exposure to light 
of the appropriate wavelength and intensity, releases 
acid to convert/destroy the acid-labile compound, thereby 
restoring the original solubility of the resin. This 
process is referred to as photosolubilisation. </p><p xml:id="_571e9">Photoresist coatings manufactured in accordance with 
the present invention have a good sensitivity and a 
stable response following storage at ambient temperature 
for several months or more. Corresponding coatings 
without the sulphonamide show losses in speed after as 
little as three weeks storage. In a preferred embodiment 
the photoresists show particular utility in printing 
plates. </p><p xml:id="_5ab8f">The speed stabilising agents of general formula (I) 
may optionally possess one or more substituents on the 
phenyl ring. Preferably, such substituents are of 
relatively low molecular weight and neutral polarity. 
These compounds must not significantly affect the 
photosolubilisation chemistry such that amino and other 
strongly basic groups that would scavenge the acid are 
unsuitable substituents. Furthermore, the compounds of 
formula (I) desirably have a minimal effect on the 
overall solubility of the photoresist medium in the 
developer solution, typically an alkali solution, so that 
both strongly hydrophobic and strongly hydrophilic groups  
 
are generally unsuitable substituents. Examples of the 
former include long chain alkyl groups (C &gt; 10) and 
highly fluorinated groups, and examples of the latter 
include: -CO₂H, -SO₃H, and phenol (-C₆H₄OH) moieties. 
Suitable ring substituents include halogen atoms, alkyl 
groups comprising up to 10 carbon atoms, preferably up to 
5 carbon atoms and nitro groups. </p><p xml:id="_29599">Examples of compounds of general formula (I) 
suitable for use as speed stabilising agents in the 
photoresists of the present invention include benzene 
sulphonamide, N-ethyl-p-toluene sulphonamide, N-ethyl-o-toluene 
sulphonamide, N-butyl-p-toluene sulphonamide, o-toluene 
sulphonamide and p-toluene sulphonamide. A 
mixture of such compounds is also permissable. A 
preferred speed stabilising agent comprises a mixture of 
45 weight % N-butyl-p-toluene sulphonamide, 45 weight % 
of N-ethyl-p-toluene sulphonamide, 5 weight % of o-toluene 
sulphonamide and 5 weight % of p-toluene 
sulphonamide, commercially available from Akzo Chemie 
under the trade name Ketjenflex 8. Another useful 
mixture comprises 50 weight % of N-ethyl-p-toluene 
sulphonamide and 50 weight % of N-ethyl-o-toluene 
sulphonamide. </p><p xml:id="_86ce3">Generally, the compounds of formula (I) comprise up 
to 25% by weight, preferably 5 to 20% by weight and more 
preferably 10 to 15% by weight of the total solids 
content of the photosensitive medium. </p><p xml:id="_665b7">The resin may be chosen from a wide range of soluble 
resins known in the art but resins capable of forming 
tack-free coatings which are soluble in alkali developer 
are preferred, including both resoles and novolacs. Such 
resins typically comprise an alkali-soluble binder having 
a plurality of phenol groups, e.g., phenol formaldehydes 
etc. The novolac and resole resins, as is known in the 
art, are produced by condensing the phenol with an 
aldehyde in the presence, respectively of an acid or  
 
basic catalyst. Although resins obtained from 
condensation with formaldehyde are generally employed, 
resins derived from other aldehydes such as, for example, 
acetaldehyde, chloral, butyraldehyde, furfural and the 
like, may also be used. Mixtures of two or more types of 
resin may also be used, including those resins possessing 
additional alkyl substituents on the aromatic ring. The 
preferred phenolic resin is m-cresol novolac resin. 
Other suitable resins include hydroxy-styrene copolymers 
and derivatives thereof. </p><p xml:id="_23eb0">As a vast number of known compounds and mixtures, 
such as diazonium salts, phosphonium salts, sulphonium 
salts, e.g., triphenyl sulphonium salts and iodonium 
salts or halogen compounds, quinone diazide 
sulfochlorides, trichloromethylpyrones, bis(trichloromethyl)-s-triazines, 
e.g., 2-(p-methoxystyryl-4,6-bis(trichloromethyl)-s-triazine, 
and organometal/organohalogen 
combinations may be used as radiation-sensitive 
constituents forming or splitting-off acids 
during irradiation. </p><p xml:id="_423f6">Suitable diazonium salts are compounds having an 
absorption range between 300 and 600 nm, which are known 
to be suitable for diazotype purposes. Compounds 
containing no basic substituents are preferred. </p><p xml:id="_57acc">As a rule, the above mentioned diazonium, 
phosphonium, sulfonium and iodonium compounds are used in 
the form of salts soluble in organic solvents, normally 
as the separation products with complex acids, such as 
tetrafluoroboric acid, hexafluorophosphoric acid, 
hexafluoroantimonic acid and hexafluoroarsenic acid. </p><p xml:id="_fd1df">Alternatively, derivatives of positive working o-quinone 
diazides may be used. In most cases, the acidity 
of the indene carboxylic acids produced by exposing the 
o-naphthoquinone diazides is barely sufficient for a 
satisfactory imagewise differentiation but from this  
 
group of compounds, naphthoquinone-1,2-diazide-4-sulfochloride 
is preferred, because, during its exposure, 
three acid functions are formed which give rise to a 
relatively high degree of intensification during cleavage 
of the acid-labile compound. </p><p xml:id="_a7511">In principle, all organic halogen compounds known as 
free radical forming photoinitiators, for example, those 
containing more than one halogen atom attached to a 
carbon atom or an aromatic ring, may be used as halogen 
containing radiation-sensitive compounds capable of 
forming a hydrohalic acid. Examples of such compounds 
are disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 3,515,552, 3,536,489 
and 3,779,778 and in German Offenlegungsschrift No. 
2243621. The effect of these halogen containing 
compounds in the photoresists of the invention may be 
spectrally influenced and increased by the addition of 
known sensitisers. </p><p xml:id="_2f3bb">Furthermore, certain substituted trichloromethylpyrones, 
such as those described in German 
Offenlegungsschrift No. 2610842 may also be used, as well 
as 2-aryl-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazines. </p><p xml:id="_b0d54">Examples of suitable photo-acid generators are:
 
   4-(di-n-propyl-amino)-benzene-diazonium-tetrafluoroborate,
 
   4-p-tolylmercapto-2,5-diethoxy-benzene-diazonium 
hexafluorophosphate,
 
   4-p-tolymercapto-2,5-diethoxy-benzene-diazonium 
tetrafluoroborate.
 
   diphenylamine-4-diazonium sulfate,
 
   4-methyl-6-trichloromethyl-2-pyrone,
 
   4-(3,4,5-trimethoxy-styryl)-6-trichloromethyl-2-pyrone,
 
   4-(4-methoxy-styryl)-6-(3,3,3-trichloro-propenyl)-2-pyrone,
 
   2-trichloromethyl-benzimidazole,
 
   2-tribromomethyl-quinoline,
 
 
   2,4-dimethyl-1-tribromoacetyl-benzene,
 
   3-nitro-1-tribromo-acetyl-benzene,
 
   4-dibromoacetyl-benzoic acid,
 
   1,4-bis-dibromomethyl-benzene,
 
   tris-dibromomethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(6-methoxy-naphth-2-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(naphth-1-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(naphth-2-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(4-ethoxyethyl-naphth-1-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(benzopyran-3-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine,
 
   2-(4-methoxy-anthracene-1-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine, 
and
 
   2-(phenanthr-9-yl)-4,6-bis-trichloromethyl-s-triazine. </p><p xml:id="_f2652">The quantity of the photo-acid generator may vary 
widely depending on its chemical nature and the exact 
composition of the photosensitive medium and is generally 
in the range from 0.1 to 20% by weight, based on the 
total weight of the solids. Good results are obtained 
with quantities ranging from about 0.1 to about 10% by 
weight, based on the total weight of the solids, with 
quantities in the range from 2 to 10% by weight being 
preferred. </p><p xml:id="_e18e0">The preferred photo-acid generators for use in the 
present invention are iodonium salts having a nucleus of 
general formula (II): 
</p><p xml:id="_c614b">in which;
 
 
   Ar¹ and Ar² independently represent aromatic or 
hetero-aromatic groups comprising up to 10 ring atoms 
which may be linked together to include the iodine atom 
within a ring structure, and
 
   X⊖ is an anion such that HX is an acid 
of ka 
greater than 3. </p><p xml:id="_4f396">In the iodonium compound Ar¹ and Ar² are aromatic 
groups generally comprising from 4 to 10 carbon atoms, 
and may be selected from aromatic hydrocarbon rings, 
e.g., phenyl or naphthyl, and hetero-aromatic groups 
including thienyl, furanyl and pyrazolyl, which may be 
substituted with alkyl groups comprising up to 5 carbon 
atoms, e.g., methyl, alkoxy groups comprising up to 4 
carbon atoms, e.g., methoxy, halogen atoms, e.g., 
chlorine, bromine, iodine and fluorine, carboxy, cyano or 
nitro groups, or any combinations thereof. Condensed 
aromatic-heteroaromatic groups, e.g., 3-indolinyl, may 
also be present. </p><p xml:id="_fefdb">Preferably Ar¹ and Ar² do not have more than two 
substituents at the α positions of the aryl groups. Most 
preferably Ar¹ and Ar² are both phenyl groups containing 
no a substituents. </p><p xml:id="_4c306">Preferred groups for Ar¹ and Ar² include: 
</p><p xml:id="_053d6">The α positions of the aryl groups may be linked 
together to include the iodine atom within a ring 
structure to give a formula such as: 
</p><p xml:id="_435a1">in which Z is an oxygen or sulphur atom and X is as 
defined above. </p><p xml:id="_c028d">Many anions are useful as the counter-ion in the 
onium salt, provided the acid from which the anion is 
derived has a pKa of less than 3, preferably less than 1. 
Suitable inorganic anions include halide anions, HSO₄⊖, 
and halogen-containing complex anions, e.g., 
tetrafluoroborate, hexafluorophosphate, 
hexafluoroarsenate and hexafluoroantimonate. Suitable 
organic anions include, for example: 
CF₃CO₂⊖, CCl₃CO₂⊖, 
CH₃SO₃⊖, CF₃SO₃⊖, 
CH₃C₆H₄SO₃⊖</p><p xml:id="_0484f">The iodonium salt generally comprises from 0.5 to 
20%, preferably 1 to 10% and, most preferably 2 to 5% by 
weight of the photoresist medium. </p><p xml:id="_8b22c">A wide variety of acid-cleavable compounds may be 
used in the present invention. Such compounds generally 
comprise an acid cleavable C-O-C or C-O-Si linkage in 
their structure. Examples of such compounds include: 
adducts of vinyl ethers with phenols or sulphonamides 
(disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 3,779,778), polyacetals and 
polyketals (disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,247,611), enol 
ethers (disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,248,957), 
N-acyliminocarbonates (as disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 
4,250,247), polymeric ortho-esters (as disclosed in U.S. 
Patent No. 4,311,782), t-alkyl esters and carbonates (as 
disclosed in European Published Patent Application No. 
249139), cyclic acetals and ketals of β-ketocarbonyl 
compounds (as disclosed in European Published Patent 
Application No. 202196) and various silyl compounds 
including silyl ether and silyl ureido compounds (as 
disclosed in German Patent No. 3601264 and Japanese 
Patent Application No. 62-059949). </p><p xml:id="_0c22f">However, preferred acid cleavable compounds comprise 
tetrahydro-pyranyl and -furanyl ethers of a bisphenol as 
disclosed in our co-pending European Patent Application 
No. 90311399.1 filed 17th October, 1990. Such compounds 
have a nucleus of general formula (III):  </p><p xml:id="_0566b">in which;
 
   n is 0, 1, 2 or 3,
 
   each R¹, R² and R³ independently represents hydrogen 
or an alkyl group comprising up to 4 carbon atoms,
 
   R⁴ and R⁵ independently represent hydrogen or one or 
more ring substituents selected from C1, Br, F, alkyl 
groups comprising up to 4 carbon atoms, alkoxy groups 
comprising up to 4 carbon atoms and combinations thereof, 
and
 
   A represents a bond or a divalent linking group 
containing up to 10 atoms other than hydrogen. Compounds 
of general formula (III) are particularly useful when the 
photo-acid generator is an iodonium salt. </p><p xml:id="_61382">In the compound of Formula (III), n is preferably 1 
or 2 and each of R¹ to R⁵ is hydrogen. A may represent a 
wide range of divalent groups including cyclic and linear 
groups generally composed of atoms selected from C, 
N,S,O and H. Preferred groups include: 
</p><p xml:id="_b28f2">and other hydrocarbon bridge groups, preferably of up to 
8 carbon atoms. </p><p xml:id="_f27d4">The compound(s) of Formula (III) generally comprises 
from 5 to 30%, preferably from 7.5 to 20% and most 
preferably from 10 to 15% by weight of the photoresist 
medium.  </p><p xml:id="_54443">Examples of suitable acid cleavable compounds 
represented by Formula (III) include: 
</p><p xml:id="_3b38c">The photoresists of the invention are preferably 
sensitive to light in the visible or near U.V. regions. 
Some photo-acid generators, such as diazonium salts, 
diazo-oxides and certain triazine and pyrone derivatives 
are intrinsically sensitive to these wavelengths, but 
others, notably iodonium salts and sulphonium salts, 
benefit from the addition of a sensitiser for the photo-acid 
generator in order to increase the sensitivity of 
the system towards radiation of a wavelength longer than 
that of the intrinsic sensitivity of the photo-acid 
generator itself. Many such compounds are known 
including those in the following classes: 
diphenylmethane including substituted diphenylmethane, 
such as amino substituted diphenylmethane, xanthene, 
acridine, methine and polymethine (including oxonol, 
cyanine and merocyanine), thiazole, thiazine, azine, 
aminoketone, porphyrin, aromatic polycyclic hydrocarbon, 
p-substituted aminostyryl compound, aminotriazylmethane, 
polyarylene, polyarylpolyene, 2,5-diphenylisobenzofuran,  
 
2-5-diarylcyclopentadiene, diarylfuran, diarylthiofuran, 
diarylpyrrole, polyarylphenylene, coumarin and polyaryl-2-pyrazoline. 
The addition of a sensitiser to the 
system renders it sensitive to any radiation falling 
within the absorption spectrum of the sensitiser. The 
efficiency of the irradiation will increase the nearer it 
coincides with λ max of the sensitiser. </p><p xml:id="_ae3f3">However, preferred sensitisers for use with the 
present invention do not scavenge the photo-generated 
acid necessary for the solubilising process and so dyes 
possessing easily protonated groups are unlikely to be 
suitable. A preferred class of sensitisers for use with 
iodonium and sulphonium salts includes polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbons and their derivatives, e.g., 
anthracene, 2-ethylanthracene, 9,10-diethoxyanthracene, 
2-ethyl-9,10-diethoxyanthracene etc. </p><p xml:id="_69900">The sensitiser is preferably present in an amount 
that makes maximum use of the incident light. This will 
vary according to the layer thickness, the extinction 
coefficient of the dye, and the extent to which its 
absorption spectrum matches the output of the exposing 
source, as is well understood by those skilled in the 
art. Generally the sensitiser will be present in amounts 
up to 15% by weight of the total solids composition. 
Where the output of the exposing source does not match 
the maximum absorption of the dye an amount in excess of 
this may be employed. </p><p xml:id="_f4f88">In most applications, the sensitiser is chosen so as 
to match as closely as possible the output of the 
intended exposure device, but in one embodiment, the 
sensitiser is chosen so that sensitivity is confined to 
the near UV region, with essentially no response to light 
of wavelengths greater than 400nm. This provides a 
photoresist that is handleable under white-light 
conditions, rather than requiring the yellow lighting 
normally used in the press-room, but can be imaged by  
 
conventional exposing devices with a realistic exposure 
time. Many commercially available exposing devices for 
printing plates and other photoresist materials emit 
predominantly in the blue region (above 400nm), with a 
relatively weak UV component, but such is the sensitivity 
shown by preferred formulations in accordance with the 
present invention that inefficient exposures of this 
sort can be tolerated without unduly lengthening the 
exposure time. Sensitisers suitable for this application 
include anthracene and its 2-ethyl derivative. </p><p xml:id="_22b97">The photoresist composition may additionally contain 
small amounts of other ingredients commonly incorporated 
in photoresist formulations, e.g., dyes or pigments that 
enhance the visibility of the post-exposure or post-development 
image, surfactants to improve the 
coatability, and oils or resins to improve the ink 
receptivity when used as a printing plate. </p><p xml:id="_73663">The photoresist composition may be coated on a 
hydrophilic substrate for use as a lithographic printing 
plate. A wide variety of coating solvents may be used, 
including lower alcohols, ketones, ethers and esters. 
Particularly suitable solvents are methyl ethyl ketone 
and methyl isobutyl ketone. Mixtures of solvents may 
also be used. Any of the well known coating techniques 
may be used, e.g., coating with wire-wound bars, spin-coating, 
knife-coating, dip-coating, roller-coating, etc. </p><p xml:id="_651d1">Typical lithographic support materials which are 
useful in the invention include supports such as zinc, 
anodized aluminium, grained aluminium, copper and 
specially prepared metal and paper supports; 
superficially hydrolysed cellulose ester films; polymeric 
supports such as polyolefins, polyesters, polyamide and 
the like. </p><p xml:id="_f8392">The supports can be sub-coated with known subbing 
materials such as copolymers and terpolymers of 
vinylidene chloride with acrylic monomers (such as  
 
acrylonitrile ant methyl acrylate) and unsaturated 
dicarboxylic acids (such as itaconic acid or acrylic 
acid); carboxymethyl cellulose, polyacrylamide; and 
similar polymeric materials. </p><p xml:id="_8bab5">The support can also carry a filter or antihalation 
layer, such as one comprising a dyed polymer layer which 
absorbs the exposing radiation after it passes through 
the radiation-sensitive layer and eliminates unwanted 
reflection from the support. A yellow dye in a polymeric 
binder, such as one of the polymers referred to above as 
suitable sub-coatings, is an especially effective 
antihalation layer when ultraviolet radiation is employed 
as the exposing radiation. </p><p xml:id="_64032">In the manufacture of a printing plate, after 
coating, the composition is dried briefly at an elevated 
temperature, e.g., 3 minutes at 85°C. </p><p xml:id="_65abb">After exposure, the plate is developed in aqueous 
alkaline developer and the exposed areas of the coating 
removed. A wide range of alkaline solutions may be used 
to develop the plate, e.g., sodium hydroxide or trisodium 
phosphate solution, but the preferred developer is 
aqueous sodium metasilicate in the concentration range of 
2 to 10 weight %, optionally containing small amounts of 
surfactants and/or organic solvents. After development, 
the plate is mounted on press and used to print copies in 
the normal manner. </p><p xml:id="_37a28">The photoresist compositions may also be used as 
positive photoresists for the preparation of metal-clad 
printed circuit boards, e.g., copper sheet laminated to 
an epoxy resin board. In this instance, the copper would 
be coated with the photosensitive composition. After 
exposure the solubilised material would be removed 
leaving an integral mask. Unprotected areas of copper 
would then be removed by etching such as with aqueous 
ferric chloride solution.  </p><p xml:id="_fb4ff">The photoresist compositions may also be used to 
protect other materials such as amorphous SiO₂. Silica 
is often used in the fabrication of electronic devices 
and integrated circuitry and the contact patterns for 
these devices are often defined through photomasks. </p><p xml:id="_b3776">The photoresist compositions may also be used in 
other applications, e.g., proofing constructions in which 
the compositions contain a high loading of a colour-proofing 
pigment. </p><p xml:id="_d8ddc">The photoresists of the invention exhibit an 
improved and most importantly consistent speed on 
prolonged storage, which speed is often superior to that 
of similar coatings lacking a compound of general formula 
(I). </p><p xml:id="_49b04">The invention will now be illustrated by the 
following Examples in which the acid-cleavable compound 
was: </p><head xml:id="_78a99">Compound I</head><p xml:id="_6c823"/><p xml:id="_e6337">and, the iodonium salt </p><head xml:id="_5f08d">Iodonium Salt I</head><p xml:id="_01dd5"/><head xml:id="_1a76f">Preparation of Compound I</head><p xml:id="_d0f7a">A mixture of dihydropyran (85g), p-toluenesulphonic 
acid (0.1g) and concentrated hydrochloric acid (2 drops) 
was stirred vigorously with ice-bath cooling as 
4,4-sulphonyldiphenol (31.3g) was added in small 
portions. The resulting thick slurry was stirred for 3  
 
hours at room temperature, diluted with ethyl acetate 
(300ml), and filtered to remove a small amount of 
insoluble material. The filtrate was extracted with 2N 
NaOH (3 x 50ml extractions) and water (a further 3 x 50ml 
extractions), before drying over MgSO₄. The solvent was 
removed under reduced pressure until a solid began to 
separate, whereupon a large volume of ether was added and 
the mixture stored in the refrigerator until no more 
solid precipitated. The product was collected, washed 
with ether and dried in a vacuum oven. Yield 21.4g; 
melting point = 163 - 164°C. </p><head xml:id="_db14c">Coating Procedures</head><p xml:id="_d6ffa">All coatings were made with m-cresol novolak resin, 
(commercially available from Borden Chemicals) as binder, 
using a 20% w/w solution in 2-butanone unless otherwise 
stated. Coatings were made on grained, anodised 
aluminium base (commercially available from Cookson 
Graphics Inc, under the trade designation 1-A-1) using a 
wire-wound bar to give a wet coating thickness of 12 µm, 
and dried at 85°C for 3 minutes. </p><head xml:id="_18aee">Development</head><p xml:id="_2ac16">This was carried out in sodium metasilicate 
solutions of a given strength (e.g., 6% w/v) in a 
temperature controlled bath (22°C). The standard routine 
was a 1 minute immersion with intermittent rubbing with a 
lambswool pad, followed by rinsing in tap water. </p><head xml:id="_19609">Coating Weight Loss (CWL)</head><p xml:id="_4bf98">This was measured as the percentage (by weight) of 
coating that was lost when an unexposed sample was 
subjected to the standard development routine. </p><head xml:id="_dc2b9">Speed</head><p xml:id="_506f6">Unless otherwise indicated, exposures were carried 
out using a Nu-Arc model 40-6K contact frame, fitted with 
a 6kW metal halide lamp ("KT Ultra-plus instant start") 
at a distance of 102 centimeters from the easel. Under  
 
these conditions, one unit of exposure corresponds to an 
energy density of 2.8 x 10⁵ ergs/cm² integrated over the 
entire output wavelength range, or an exposure time of 
approximately 1.5 seconds. The bulk of the output of 
this lamp is above 400nm. </p><p xml:id="_f8b55">Samples were exposed through a step wedge to a given 
number of units, developed as described above and then 
inked by hand. This procedure comprises wiping the image 
with phosphoric acid (1% solution) and then printing ink, 
the latter adhering preferentially to the undissolved 
resin image. The optical density (of the wedge) at which 
photosolubilisation ceased was thus revealed and by 
converting it to percentage transmission, it was possible 
to calculate the minimum exposure required to achieve 
photosolubilisation at 100% transmission, assuming no 
reciprocity failure. </p><head xml:id="_52fd1">Example 1</head><p xml:id="_82e2a">The following coating formulations were coated onto 
grained and anodised aluminium base at 12µm wet thickness 
and dried for 3 minutes at 85°C. </p><head xml:id="_d8174">Control Formulation 1</head><p xml:id="_89716">m-cresol novolak resin2.5g Iodonium salt I0.05g 9,10-diethoxyanthracene0.05g Compound I0.1g </p><head xml:id="_ce7f0">Coating Formulation A</head><p xml:id="_c2aec">As per the Control Formulation plus N-ethyl-p-toluene 
sulphonamide (0.10g). </p><p xml:id="_dd35f">The coatings were stored in the dark at 40°C, and 
samples tested for speed at various intervals over a 
period of 49 days. This involved exposing samples 
through a step wedge to a 6kW metal halide source at a 
distance of 102cm. Following development in 9% w/v 
sodium metasilicate solution, the images were inked by 
hand, and the optical density at which photosolubilisation 
ceased was noted. By converting this to % transmission,  
 
it was possible to calculate the minimum exposure 
required to achieve photosolubilisation. The results for 
each coating are shown in Table 1 below. 
</p><p xml:id="_3c2ca">Thus, the control coating having no speed 
stabilising agent suffered a 4 to 5 fold loss of speed, 
whereas coating A in accordance with the invention 
remained essentially stable. </p><head xml:id="_7f820">Example 2</head><p xml:id="_9cff9">m-Cresol novolac resin (commercially available from 
Borden Chemicals under the trade designation LP6-GO9) 
Irgalite Blue GLV, copper phthalocyanine pigment 
commercially available from Ciba-Geigy, and methyl 
isobutyl ketone (MIBK) were milled together to produce a 
31.3% by weight solids dispersion with a resin: pigment 
ratio of 18.8 : 1 by weight. This dispersion was 
formulated with other ingredients as follows (all parts 
by weight) :  </p><p xml:id="_beb6e">to give a 24.6% by weight solids coating solution. This 
solution was then coated on Advance 1-A-1 aluminium base 
and dried at 88°C to give a dry coating weight of 
2.05g/m² (Coating B). </p><p xml:id="_fbca0">The dried coating was stored in the dark at ambient 
temperature and samples evaluated at intervals by 
exposure on a Berkey-Ascor printing frame followed by 
subsequent development for 2 minutes in a 5.6% w/v sodium 
metasilicate solution at a fixed temperature. The speed 
of each sample was determined as described in Example 1 
and the soak time also recorded. The % coating weight 
loss (CWL) of unexposed samples subjected to the same 
development routine was also measured. The results are 
presented in Table 2 below. 
</p><p xml:id="_76e68">The above results show that the important parameters 
of speed, soak time and CWL remained reasonably constant 
over the test period of 50 days.  </p><head xml:id="_519e3">Example 3</head><p xml:id="_52e77">Control Formulation 2 and Coating Formulation C were 
prepared in the same manner as Coating Formulation B of 
Example 2, except that in Coating Formulation C the 
Ketjenflex-8 was replaced by an equal weight of N-ethyltoluene-sulphonamide 
(1 : 1 mixture of ortho and 
para isomers), while Control Formulation 2 contained no 
stabilising additive. Both coatings were dried at 80°C. 
After aging 42 days in the dark at ambient temperature, 
samples of both coatings were given equal exposures on a 
Berkey-Ascor unit before immersion in a 5.6% w/v sodium 
metasilicate at a fixed temperature with varying time 
intervals between the end of exposure and start of 
development. The time for the exposed areas to dissolve 
fully (the soak time) was noted, and the results 
presented in Table 3 below. 
</p><p xml:id="_4d69e">Thus, the Control Formulation gave a significantly 
longer soak time, which varied considerably with the time 
interval between exposure and development when compared 
with Coating Formulation C of the invention. </p><p xml:id="_c5a15">"Ketjenflex 8", "Berkey-Ascor", "Nu-arc" and "KT 
Ultra-plus" are all trade names. </p><head xml:id="_2f765">Example 4</head><p xml:id="_98fc2">This Example tests the effect of a sulphonamide 
compound of the invention on a positive resist that does 
not contain an acid-cleavable compound. </p><p xml:id="_b5f67">Control Formulations 3 and 4 were prepared as for 
Control Formulation 1 described in Example 1, except that 
Compound 1 was omitted and Control Formulation 4 
additionally contained 0.075g N-ethyl p-toluenesulphonamide. 
Each formulation was coated on 
aluminium base as described in Example 1, stored in the 
dark at 40°C, then tested for speed as described in 
Example 1, except that Control Formulation 3 was 
developed in 7% w/v sodium metasilicate and Control 
Formulation 4 in 4% w/v sodium metasilcate. This 
arrangement enabled both coatings to show comparable 
developer resistance (prior to exposure), which is 
necessary for meaningful speed comparisons. Their 
respective speeds after various periods of aging are 
shown in Table 4:- 
</p><p xml:id="_41366">Both coatings showed wide variations in speed, with 
a marked speed loss after approximately three weeks 
storage. No advantage was apparent for the coating 
containing the sulphonamide, in the absence of an acid-cleavable 
compound. </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>