<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">24697660</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">US</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">67222291</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910320</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">US67222291A</idno></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C07F9/568</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302153</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302153A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="references-cited"><list type="citations"><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0337549</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0337549A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item></list></item><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>DURETTE PHILIPPE L</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>MACCOSS MALCOLM</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>DURETTE, PHILIPPE L.</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>MACCOSS, MALCOLM</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>DURETTE, PHILIPPE L.</persName><residence><address><addrLine>187 Pine Way</addrLine><settlement>New Providence, NJ 07974</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>MACCOSS, MALCOLM</persName><residence><address><addrLine>48 Rose Court</addrLine><settlement>Freehold, NJ 07728</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>MERCK &amp; CO INC</name><address><country type="national">US</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>MERCK &amp; CO. INC.</name></item><item type="original"><name>Merck &amp;amp; Co., Inc.</name><address><addrLine>126, East Lincoln Avenue P.O. Box 2000</addrLine><settlement>Rahway New Jersey 07065-0900</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>CH</country><country>DE</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country><country>LI</country><country>NL</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/675       20060101AFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/675       20060101CFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  29/00        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  29/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07D 205/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07D 205/08        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07F   9/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07F   9/568       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Neue substituierte Azetidinone als antiinflammatorisches und antidegeneratives Mittel.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">New substituted azetidinones as anti-inflammatory and antidegenerative agents.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Nouvelles azétidinones substituées comme agents antiinflammatoires et antidégénératifs.</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505097</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode><date>19920923</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505097A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front><div type="abstract" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_ec789">New substituted azetidinones of the general 
formula (A), which have been found to be potent 
elastase inhibitors and thereby useful as 
anti-inflammatory and antidegenerative agents, are 
described. 
</p></div></front><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ac763">A compound of Formula (A) 
 
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein: 
   R is H, C₁₋₆ alkyl, or C₂₋₆ alkenyl; 
   R₁ is H, C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₂₋₆ alkenyl or C₁₋₆ 
alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl; 
   M is 
<list type="simple"><item>(1) hydrogen, </item><item>(2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(3) hydroxy C₁₋₆-alkyl, </item><item>(4) halo C₁₋₆-alkyl, </item><item>(5) C₂₋₆ alkenyl, or </item><item>(6) C₁₋₆ alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl; </item></list> 
   R₂ and R₃ are each independently 
<list type="simple"><item>(1) hydrogen, </item><item>(2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(3) halo, </item><item>(4) carboxy, </item><item>(5) C₁₋₆ alkoxy, </item><item>(6) phenyl, </item><item>(7) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyl, </item><item>(8) C₁₋₆ alkyloxycarbonyl, </item><item>(9) di-(C₁₋₆alkyl)amino, </item><item>(10) phenoxy, or </item></list> 
   R₂ and R₃ are joined together to form a ring 
selected from furan, thiophene, and 
dioxacyclopentane; 
   R₄ is 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) hydrogen, </item><item>(b) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(c) halo, or </item><item>(d) C₁₋₆ alkoxy. </item></list> 
   n is 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4; 
   R₅ and R₆ are each independently 
<list type="simple"><item>(1) Hydrogen, </item><item>(2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(3) substituted C₁₋₆ alkyl wherein 
the substituent is halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, C₁₋₆ 
alkylcarbonyloxy, amino, C₁₋₆ 
alkylamino, di-(C₁₋₆ alkyl)- 
amino, or tri-(C₁₋₆ alkyl) 
ammonium, </item><item>(4) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(a) phenyl, (b) naphthyl, (c) pyridyl, (d) furyl, (e) pyrryl, (f) thienyl, (g) imidazolyl, (h) benzimidazolyl, (i) pyrazinyl, (j) pyrimidyl, (k) quinolyl, (l) isoquinolyl, (m) benzofuryl, and (n) benzothienyl,  
and mono and di-substituted C₆₋₁₀ aryl as defined 
above in items (a) to (n) wherein the 
substituents are independently C₁₋₆ alkyl, halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyl, or 
C₁₋₆ alkoxy C₁₋₆ alkyl;or </item><item>(5) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_73cc4">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 1, wherein 
   R₅ is 
<list type="simple"><item>(1) hydrogen, </item><item>(2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(3) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(a) phenyl, (b) pyridyl, (c) furyl, (d) thienyl, (e) imidazolyl, (f) benzimidazolyl, (g) pyrimidyl, (h) benzofuryl, and (i) benzothienyl; or </item><item>(4) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl. </item></list></p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_218e7">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 2, wherein 
   R₆ is 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) hydrogen, </item><item>(b) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(c) substituted C₁₋₆ alkyl wherein 
the substituent is halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, C₁₋₆ 
alkylcarbonyloxy, amino, C₁₋₆ 
alkylamino, di-(C₁₋₆ alkyl)amino, 
or tri-(C₁₋₆ alkyl) 
ammonium, </item><item>(d) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(1) phenyl, (2) pyridyl, (3) furyl, (4) thienyl, (5) imidazolyl, (6) benzimidazolyl, (7) pyrimidyl, (8) benzofuryl, and (9) benzothienyl. </item></list></p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e0fd6">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 3, wherein 
   R₅ is 
<list type="simple"><item>(1) Hydrogen, </item><item>(2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(3) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(a) phenyl, (b) thienyl, (c) isothiazolyl, (d) benzofuryl, and (e) benzothienyl, or </item><item>(4) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl. </item></list></p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4028f">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 4, wherein 
   R₆ is 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) hydrogen, </item><item>(b) C₁₋₆ alkyl, </item><item>(c) substituted C₁₋₆ alkyl wherein 
the substituent is halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, or 
amino, </item><item>(d) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(1) phenyl, (2) thienyl, (3) benzofuryl, and (4) benzothienyl. </item></list></p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_36275">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 5, wherein 
   M, R, and R₁ are each independently C₁₋₆ 
alkyl or C₂₋₆ alkenyl;
 
   R₂ and R₃ are each independently hydrogen, 
C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkoxy, or R₂ and R₃ are 
joined together to form a ring selected from 
furan, thiophene, or dioxacyclopentane; 
   R₄ is hydrogen, C₁₋₆ alkyl, fluoro or chloro; 
n is 0 or 1; 
   R₅ is hydrogen, C₁₋₆ alkyl, 
C₁₋₆-alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl; and 
   R₆ is hydrogen C₁₋₆ alkyl, or 
C₁₋₆-alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6e8a2">A compound according to Claim 6 of 
Formula A wherein 
   M, R and R₁ are each independently C₁₋₆ 
alkyl; 
   R₂ is hydrogen, and 
   R₃ is C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, or 
   R₂ and R₃ are joined together to form a ring 
selected from furan or dioxacyclopentane; 
   R₄ is hydrogen, C₁₋₆ alkyl, fluoro, or 
chloro; 
   n is 0 or 1; 
   R₅ is hydrogen or C₁₋₆ alkyl; 
   R₆ is hydrogen or C₁₋₆ alkyl. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_3c7f1">A compound according to Claim 7 wherein 
   M is n-propyl; 
   R and R₁, are ethyl; 
   n is 0 or 1; 
   R₂ is hydrogen, and
 
   R₃ is methyl, or methoxy, or R₂ and R₃ are 
joined together to form a ring selected from 
furan or dioxacyclopentane; 
   R₅ is hydrogen or C₁₋₆ alkyl; and 
   R₆ is hydrogen or C₁₋₆ alkyl. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c6e89">A compound of Formula A according to 
Claim 8 selected from the group consisting of 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) (4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(diethoxy-phosphinylmethyl-phenoxy]azetidin-2- 
one; and </item><item>(b) (4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(dihydroxy-phosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]azetidin-2-one. </item></list></p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_16e9f">A pharmaceutical composition for the 
inhibition of leukocyte elastase which comprises a 
nontoxic therapeutically effective amount of a 
compound of Claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable 
carrier. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_23deb">The use of a compound as claimed in Claim 1 
for the manufacture of a medicament for the inhibition of 
human leukocyte elastase. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><head xml:id="_cb63a">BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_5380c">We have found that a group of new 
substituted azetidinones are potent elastase 
inhibitors and therefore are useful anti-inflammatory 
and antidegenerative agents. </p><p xml:id="_a19b5">Proteases from granulocytes and macrophages 
have been reported to be responsible for the chronic 
tissue destruction mechanisms associated with 
inflammation, including rheumatoid arthritis and 
emphysema. Accordingly, specific and selective 
inhibitors of these proteases are candidates for 
potent anti-inflammatory agents useful in the 
treatment of inflammatory conditions resulting in 
connective tissue destruction, e.g. rheumatoid 
arthritis, emphysema, bronchial inflammation, 
osteoarthritis, spondylitis, lupus, psoriasis,  
 
atherosclerosis, sepsis, septicemia, shock, 
periodontitis, cystic fibrosis and acute respiratory 
distress syndrome. </p><p xml:id="_8e661">The role of proteases from granulocytes, 
leukocytes or macrophages is related to a rapid 
series of events which occur during the progression 
of an inflammatory condition: 
(1) There is a rapid production of 
prostaglandins (PG's) and related compounds 
synthesized from arachidonic acid. This PG synthesis 
has been shown to be inhibited by aspirin-related 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, including 
indomethacin and phenylbutazone. There is some 
evidence that protease inhibitors prevent PG 
production; (2) There is also a change in vascular 
permeability which causes a leakage of fluid into the 
inflammed site and the resulting edema is generally 
used as a marker for measuring the degree of 
inflammation. This process has been found to be 
induced by the proteolytic or peptide cleaving 
activity of proteases, especially those contained in 
the granulocyte, and thereby can be inhibited by 
various synthetic protease inhibitors, for example, 
N-acyl-benzisothiazolones and their respective 
1,1-dioxides. Morris Zimmerman et al., J. Biol. 
Chem., 255, 9848 (1980); and (3) There is an appearance and/or presence of 
lymphoid cells, especially macrophages and 
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN's). It has been 
known that a variety of proteases are released from  
 
the macrophages and PMN's, further indicating that 
the proteases do play an important role in 
inflammation. </p><p xml:id="_15ec6">In general, proteases are an important 
family of enzymes within the peptide bond cleaving 
enzymes whose members are essential to a variety of 
normal biological activities, such as digestion, 
formation and dissolution of blood clots, the 
formation of active forms of hormones, the immune 
reaction to foreign cells and organisms, etc., and in 
pathological conditions such as the degradation of 
structural proteins at the articular cartilage/pannus 
junction in rheumatoid arthritis, etc. </p><p xml:id="_51255">Elastase is one of these proteases. It is 
an enzyme capable of hydrolyzing the connective 
tissue component elastin, a property not contained by 
the bulk of the proteases present in mammals. It 
acts on a protein's nonterminal bonds which are 
adjacent to an aliphatic amino acid. Neutrophil 
elastase is of particular interest because it has the 
broadest spectrum of activity against natural 
connective tissue substrates. In particular, the 
elastase of the granulocyte is important because, as 
described above, granulocytes participate in acute 
inflammation and in acute exacerbation of chronic 
forms of inflammation which characterize many 
clinically important inflammatory diseases. </p><p xml:id="_e12e3">Proteases may be inactivated by inhibitors 
which block the active site of the enzyme by binding 
tightly thereto. Naturally occurring protease 
inhibitors form part of the control or defense  
 
mechanisms that are crucial to the well-being of an 
organism. Without these control mechanisms, the 
proteases would destroy any protein within reach. 
The naturally occurring enzyme inhibitors have been 
shown to have appropriate configurations which allow 
them to bind tightly to the enzyme. This 
configuration is part of the reason that inhibitors 
bind to the enzyme so tightly (see Stroud, "A Family 
of Protein-Cutting Proteins" Sci.Am. July 1974, pp. 
74-88). For example, one of the natural inhibitors, 
α₁-antitrypsin, is a glycoprotein contained in human 
serum that has a wide inhibitory spectrum covering, 
among other enzymes, elastase both from the pancreas 
and the PMN. This inhibitor is hydrolyzed by the 
proteases to form a stable acyl enzyme in which the 
active site is no longer available. Marked reduction 
in serum α₁-antitrypsin, either genetic or due to 
oxidants, has been associated with pulmonary 
emphysema which is a disease characterized by a 
progressive loss of lung elasticity and resulting 
respiratory difficulty. It has been reported that 
this loss of lung elasticity is caused by the 
progressive, uncontrolled proteolysis or destruction 
of the structure of lung tissue by proteases such as 
elastase released from leukocytes. J. C. Powers, 
TIBS, 211 (1976). </p><p xml:id="_e1aad">Rheumatoid arthritis is characterized by a 
progressive destruction of articular cartilage both 
on the free surface bordering the joint space and at 
the erosion front built up by synovial tissue toward 
the cartilage. This destruction process, in turn, is  
 
attributed to the protein-cutting enzyme elastase 
which is a neutral protease present in human 
granulocytes. This conclusion has been supported by 
the following observations: 
(1) Recent histochemical investigations showed 
the accumulation of granulocytes at the cartilage/ 
pannus junction in rheumatoid arthritis; and (2) a recent investigation of mechanical 
behavior of cartilage in response to attack by 
purified elastase demonstrated the direct 
participation of granulocyte enzymes, especially 
elastase, in rheumatoid cartilage destruction. H. 
Menninger et al., in Biological Functions of 
Proteinases, H. Holzer and H. Tschesche, eds. 
Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, pp. 
196-206, 1979. </p><head xml:id="_12ae6">BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_65ccc">The instantly claimed invention is directed 
to specifically substituted azetidinones in which the 
substituent in the 4-position is a substituted 
phenoxy moiety wherein the substituent is a 
phosphoric acid derivative and the N-substiuent is a 
phenylalkylaminocarbonyl group. This invention is 
also directed to pharmaceutical compositions and 
methods of using these specifically substituted 
azetidinones.  </p><head xml:id="_23ad6">DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_8112e">This invention relates to potent elastase 
inhibitors of Formula A which are useful in the 
prevention, control and treatment of inflammatory and 
degenerative conditions especially arthritis and 
emphysema. </p><p xml:id="_f22b2">In one embodiment the instant invention is 
directed to the compounds of the Formula (A) 
</p><p xml:id="_d9822">and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein
 
   R is H, C₁₋₆ alkyl, or C₂₋₆ alkenyl;
 
   R₁ is H, C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₂₋₆ alkenyl or C₁₋₆ 
alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl;
 
   M is 
(1) hydrogen, (2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, (3) hydroxy C₁₋₆-alkyl, (4) halo C₁₋₆-alkyl, (5) C₂₋₆ alkenyl, or (6) C₁₋₆ alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl; </p><p xml:id="_9c77e">   R₂ and R₃ are each independently 
(1) hydrogen, (2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, (3) halo, (4) carboxy, (5) C₁₋₆ alkoxy, (6) phenyl, (7) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyl, (8) C₁₋₆ alkyloxycarbonyl, (9) di-(C₁₋₆alkyl)amino, (10) phenoxy, or </p><p xml:id="_9277c">   R₂ and R₃ are joined together to form a ring 
selected from furan, thiophene, and 
dioxacyclopentane;
 
   R₄ is 
(a) hydrogen, (b) C₁₋₆ alkyl, (c) halo, or (d) C₁₋₆ alkoxy. </p><p xml:id="_37f07">   n is 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4;
 
   R₅ and R₆ are each independently 
(1) hydrogen, (2) C₁₋₆ alkyl, (3) substituted C₁₋₆ alkyl wherein 
the substituent is halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, C₁₋₆ 
alkylcarbonyloxy, amino, C₁₋₆ 
alkylamino, di-(C₁₋₆ alkyl)amino, 
or tri-(C₁₋₆ alkyl) 
ammonium,  (4) C₆₋₁₀ aryl wherein the aryl 
group is selected from the group 
consisting of 
(a) phenyl, (b) naphthyl, (c) pyridyl, (d) furyl, (e) pyrryl, (f) thienyl, (g) imidazolyl, (h) benzimidazolyl, (i) pyrazinyl, (j) pyrimidyl,  (k) quinolyl, (l) isoquinolyl, (m) benzofuryl, and (n) benzothienyl,  
and mono and di-substituted C₆₋₁₀ aryl as defined 
above in items (a) to (n) wherein the 
substituents are independently C₁₋₆ alkyl, halo, 
hydroxy, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyl, or 
C₁₋₆ alkoxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl; or  (5) C₁₋₆ alkylcarbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ alkyl.   </p><p xml:id="_e531f">In one class of this embodiment, the instant 
invention concerns compounds of Formula A 
</p><p xml:id="_202ad">and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein
 
   M, R, and R₁ are each independently C₁₋₆ 
alkyl or C₂₋₆ alkenyl;
 
   R₂ and R₃ are each independently hydrogen, 
C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkoxy, or R₂ and R₃ are 
joined together to form a ring selected from 
furan, thiophene, or dioxacyclopentane;
 
   R₄ is hydrogen, C₁₋₆ alkyl, fluoro or chloro;
 
   n is 0 or 1;
 
   R₅ and R₆ are each independently hydrogen, 
C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₆₋₁₀aryl, or C₁₋₆-alkyl-carbonyloxy-C₁₋₆ 
alkyl. </p><p xml:id="_68a7f">One subclass of this embodiment concerns 
compounds of Formula A wherein:
 
   M, R and R₁ are each independently C₁₋₆ alkyl;
 
   R₂ is hydrogen and
 
   R₃ is C₁₋₆ alkyl, C₁₋₆ alkyloxy, or
 
   R₂ and R₃ are joined together to form a ring 
selected from furan or dioxacyclopentane;
 
   R₅ and R₆ are each independently hydrogen or 
C₁₋₆ alkyl;
 
   R₄ is hydrogen, C₁₋₆ alkyl, fluoro, or chloro;
 
   n is 0 or 1. </p><p xml:id="_f14cc">A narrower sub-class of this embodiment 
concerns compounds of Formula A wherein:
 
   M is n-propyl;
 
   R and R₁, are ethyl;
 
   n is 0 or 1;
 
   R₂ is hydrogen, and
 
   R₃ is methyl, or methoxy, or R₂ and R₃ are 
joined together to form a ring selected from 
furan or dioxacyclopentane;
 
 
   R₅ and R₆ are each hydrogen. </p><p xml:id="_762f6">Exemplifying this class of the invention are 
the following: </p><p xml:id="_ccd59">A compound which is (4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(diethoxy-phosphinylmethyl-phenoxy]azetidin-2-one. </p><p xml:id="_11eab">A compound which is (4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(dihydroxy-phosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]azetidin-2-one. </p><p xml:id="_52bd6">The compounds of the invention are prepared 
by the following representative schemes: 
</p><p xml:id="_04d43">As shown in Scheme I, the phosphonic acid 
analogs 4 were synthesized starting from the 
corresponding carboxylic acid 1 ( preparation of the 
starting material 1 may be found in EPO 337,549, 
published October 18, 1989) to give the appropriate 
benzylic bromide 2. This was then treated with a 
trialkylphosphite, such as trimethyl or triethyl 
phosphite, at a temperature of from 75-125°C in a 
Michaelis-Arbuzov reaction to give the phosphonic 
acid diester 3. The corresponding free acids 4 were 
obtained by cleavage of the two alkyl ester groups 
with a halotrimethylsilane, such as 
bromotrimethylsilane. 
</p><p xml:id="_ece3c">The monosodium salts of the phosphonic acid 
analogs were synthesized as shown in Scheme II via a 
nucleophilic displacement reaction on the benzylic 
bromide 1 with the sodium or potassium salt of 
dibenzyl phosphite in a dipolar aprotic solvent, such 
as tetrahydrofuran or 1,4-dioxane, which afforded the 
dibenzyl phosphonate derivatives 6. The benzyl ester 
groups were removed by catalytic hydrogenolysis in an 
alcoholic solvent, such as methanol or ethanol, in 
the presence of a palladium catalyst, such as 10% 
palladium on-charcoal, and one equivalent of sodium 
hydrogen carbonate, to afford the desired monosodium 
phosphonate derivatives 7. </p><p xml:id="_a870f">This invention also relates to a method of 
treating inflammation in patients using a compound of 
Formula A. </p><p xml:id="_60ac6">It has been found that the compounds of, 
Formula A are effective inhibitors of the proteolytic 
function of human granulocyte elastase as shown below:  </p><head xml:id="_cf8f5">Enzyme Assays for the Inhibition of Human 
Polymorphonuclear Leukocyte Elastase Via hydrolysis 
of N-t-Boc-alanyl-alanyl-prolylalanine-p-nitroanilide 
(Boc-AAPAN) or N-t-Boc-alanyl-prolylvaline-p-nitroanilide 
(Boc-AAPVN) Reagent:</head><p xml:id="_d8054">0.05M TES (N-tris[hydroxymethyl]methyl-2-amino-ethanesulfonic 
acid) Buffer, pH 7.5. </p><p xml:id="_725c3">0.2 mM Boc-AAPAN or Boc-AAPVN.  </p><p xml:id="_2dbaa">To prepare substrate, the solid was first 
dissolved in 10.0 ml DMSO. Buffer at pH 7.5 was then 
added to a final volume of 100 ml. </p><p xml:id="_0ea4d">Crude extract of human polymorphonuclear 
leukocytes (PMN) containing elastase activity. </p><p xml:id="_8e0e7">Inhibitors (azetidinones) to be tested 
dissolved in DMSO just before use. </p><p xml:id="_c02fd">To 1.0 ml of 0.2 mM Boc-AAPAN in a cuvette, 
0.01-0.1 ml of DMSO with or without inhibitor was 
added. After mixing, a measurement was taken at 410 
mµ to detect any spontaneous hydrolysis due to 
presence of test compound. 0.05 Milliliters of PMN 
extract was then added and the ΔOD/min at 410 mµ 
was measured and recorded. Beckman model 35 spectrophotometer 
was used. </p><p xml:id="_c25a5">Results are also expressed as Ki, the 
micromolar concentration of the inhibitor (µM) giving 
50% of the control enzyme activity; or as kobs/I 
which is the second order rate constant in per mole 
per second for inactivation of the enzyme. </p><p xml:id="_4f214">The elastase activity in the crude PMN 
may vary from one preparation to another. A 
control of each new batch is run, and the volume added 
in the assay procedure is adjusted according to 
activity. </p><p xml:id="_6e79c">Accordingly, the compounds of Formula A can 
be used to reduce inflammation and relieve pain in 
diseases such as emphysema, rheumatoid arthritis, 
osteoarthritis, gout, bronchial inflammation, 
atherosclerosis, sepsis, septicemia, shock, 
periodontitis, cystic fibrosis, infectious arthritis, 
rheumatic fever and the like.  </p><p xml:id="_939c2">For treatment of inflammation, fever or 
pain, the compounds of Formula A may be administered 
orally, topically, parenterally, by inhalation spray 
or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing 
conventional non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable 
carriers, adjuvants and vehicles. The term 
parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous 
injections, intravenous, intramuscular, intrasternal 
injection or infusion techniques. In addition to the 
treatment of warm-blooded animals such as mice, rats, 
horses, dogs, cats, etc., the compounds of the 
invention are effective in the treatment of humans. </p><p xml:id="_c8d67">The pharmaceutical compositions containing 
the active ingredient may be in a form suitable for 
oral use, for example, as tablets, troches, lozenges, 
aqueous or oily suspensions, dispersible powders or 
granules, emulsions, hard or soft capsules, or syrups 
or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may 
be prepared according to any method known to the art 
for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions 
and such compositions may contain one or more agents 
selected from the group consisting of sweetening 
agents, flavoring agents, coloring agents and 
preserving agents in order to provide 
pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparation. 
Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture 
with non-toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients 
which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. 
These excipients may be for example, inert diluents, 
such as calcium carbonate, sodium carbonate, lactose, 
calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate; granulating 
and disintegrating agents, for example, corn starch,  
 
or alginic acid; binding agents, for example starch, 
gelatin or acacia, and lubricating agents, for 
example magnesium stearate, stearic acid or talc. 
The tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by 
known techniques to delay disintegration and 
absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby 
provide a sustained action over a longer period. For 
example, a time delay material such as glyceryl 
monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. </p><p xml:id="_be1cd">Formulations for oral use may also be 
presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active 
ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent, for 
example, calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate or 
kaolin, or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the 
active ingredient is mixed with water or an oil 
medium, for example peanut oil, liquid paraffin, or 
olive oil. </p><p xml:id="_e4670">Aqueous suspensions contain the active 
materials in admixture with excipients suitable for 
the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such 
excipients are suspending agents, for example sodium 
carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, 
sodium alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, 
gum tragacanth and gum acacia; 
dispersing or wetting agents may be a naturally-occurring 
phosphatide, for example lecithin, or 
condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty 
acids, for example polyoxyethylene stearate, or 
condensation products of ethylene oxide with long 
chain aliphatic alcohols, for example 
heptadeca-ethyleneoxycetanol, or condensation 
products of ethylene oxide with partial esters  
 
derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as 
polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate, or condensation 
products of ethylene oxide with partial esters 
derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, for 
example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The 
said aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more 
preservatives, for example ethyl, or n-propyl, 
p-hydroxybenzoate, one or more coloring agents, one 
or more flavoring agents, and one or more sweetening 
agents, such as sucrose or saccharin. </p><p xml:id="_59c51">Oily suspension may be formulated by 
suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil, 
for example arachis oil, olive oil, sesame oil or 
coconut oil, or in a mineral oil such as liquid 
paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a 
thickening agent, for example beeswax, hard paraffin 
or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those 
set forth above, and flavoring agents may be added to 
provide a palatable oral preparation. These 
compositions may be preserved by the addition of an 
antioxidant such as ascorbic acid. </p><p xml:id="_2c2b6">Dispersible powders and granules suitable 
for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the 
addition of water provide the active ingredient in 
admixture with a dispersing or wetting agent, 
suspending agent and one or more preservatives. 
Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending 
agents are exemplified by those already mentioned 
above. Additional excipients, for example 
sweetening, flavoring and coloring agents, may also 
be present.  </p><p xml:id="_55eee">The pharmaceutical compositions of the 
invention may also be in the form of oil-in-water 
emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil, 
for example olive oil or arachis oils, or a mineral 
oil, for example liquid paraffin or mixtures of 
these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be 
naturally-occurring gums, for example gum acacia or 
gum tragacanth, naturally-occurring phosphatides, for 
example soy bean, lecithin, and esters or partial 
esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol 
anhydrides, for example sorbitan mono-oleate, and 
condensation products of the said partial esters with 
ethylene oxide, for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan 
monooleate. The emulsions may also contain 
sweetening and flavoring agents. </p><p xml:id="_7b4f5">Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with 
sweetening agents, for example glycerol, propylene 
glycol, sorbitol or sucrose. Such formulations may 
also contain a demulcent, a preservative and 
flavoring and coloring agents. The pharmaceutical 
compositions may be in the form of a sterile 
injectable aqueous or oleagenous suspension. This 
suspension may be formulated according to the known 
art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents 
and suspending agents which have been mentioned 
above. The sterile injectable preparation may also 
be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a 
non-toxic parenterally-acceptable diluent or solvent, 
for example as a solution in 1,3-butane diol. Among 
the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be 
employed are water, Ringer's solution and isotonic 
sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile,  
 
fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent 
or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland 
fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono- 
or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as 
oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables. </p><p xml:id="_c827b">The compounds of Formula A may also be 
administered in the form of suppositories for rectal 
administration of the drug. These compositions can 
be prepared by mixing the drug with a suitable 
non-irritating excipient which is solid at ordinary 
temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and 
will therefore melt in the rectum to release the 
drug. Such materials are cocoa butter and 
polyethylene glycols. </p><p xml:id="_ee528">For topical use, creams, ointments, jellies, 
solutions or suspensions, etc., containing the 
anti-inflammatory agents are employed. </p><p xml:id="_a4d4e">The amount of active ingredient that may be 
combined with the carrier materials to produce a 
single dosage form will vary depending upon the host 
treated and the particular mode of administration. 
For example, a formulation intended for the oral 
administration of humans may contain from 5 mg to 5 
gm of active agent compounded with an appropriate and 
convenient amount of carrier material which may vary 
from about 5 to about 95 percent of the total 
composition. Dosage unit forms will generally 
contain between from about 25 mg to about 500 mg of 
actve ingredient. </p><p xml:id="_8225d">It will be understood, however, that the 
specific dose level for any particular patient will 
depend upon a variety of factors including the  
 
activity of the specific compound employed, the age, 
body weight, general health, sex, diet, time of 
administration, route of administration, rate of 
excretion, drug combination and the severity of the 
particular disease undergoing therapy. </p><p xml:id="_9f413">The following examples illustrate the 
preparation of the compounds of Formula A and as such 
are not to be considered as limiting the invention as 
set forth in the claims appended thereto. 
Preparation of the starting material 1 may be found 
in EPO 337,549, published October 18, 1989, which is 
hereby incorporated by reference. </p><head xml:id="_b81a1">EXAMPLE 1</head><head xml:id="_db0b8">(4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-[4-(diethoxyphosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one.</head><head xml:id="_b9369">Step A:Preparation of(4S)-3,3-diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(bromomethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one</head><p xml:id="_614cc">To a solution of (4S)-3,3-diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-(4-carboxyphenoxy)azetidin-2-one 
(1.04 g, 2.30 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran 
(20 mL) cooled to 0°C was added dropwise with 
stirring under a nitrogen atmosphere a 2.0 M solution 
of borane-methyl sulfide in tetrahydrofuran (3.0 mL, 
6 mmol). The solution was allowed to attain room 
temperature and stirred overnight. Excess borane was  
 
decomposed by slow addition of methanol. The 
solution was evaporated, and the crude product was 
subjected to flash chromatography on silica gel using 
30% ethyl acetate in hexane as the mobile phase. 
(4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-[4-(hydroxymethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one 
was obtained as a colorless oil. 
Triphenylphosphine (637 mg, 2.43 mmol) was dissolved 
in acetonitrile (11 mL) and bromine (0.12 mL) was 
added with stirring to give rise to a yellow-orange 
solution. Additional triphenylphosphine was added 
until a faintly yellow solution was obtained. A 
solution of (4S)-3,3-diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(hydroxymethyl)phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one 
(1.0 g, 2.28 mmol) in 
acetonitrile (10 mL) was added dropwise with 
stirring. The reaction mixture was stirred ovenight 
at room temperature, evaporated, and the crude 
mixture subjected to flash chromatography on silica 
gel using 5% ethyl acetate in hexane as the mobile 
phase.
 
(4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(bromomethyl)-phenoxy]azetidin-2-one 
(842 mg, 74% yield) was obtained as a 
thick oil that solidified upon standing. </p><head xml:id="_3da0e">Step B:(4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-[4-(diethoxyphosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one.</head><p xml:id="_18696">A mixture of (4S)-3,3-diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(bromomethyl)phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one 
(362 mg, 0.72 mmol) 
and triethyl phosphite (1.4 mL, 8.2 mmol) was heated  
 
for 2 hours at 90°C. The crude product mixture was 
subjected to flash chromatography on silica gel using 
initially 25% ethyl acetate in hexane and 
subsequently 33% ethyl acetate in hexane as the 
mobile phase. (4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-[4-(diethoxyphosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one 
was 
obtained as colorless oil; yield 371 mg, 92%; Fast 
atom bombardment mass spectrum (FAB MS) : m/z 559 (M 
+ 1). </p><head xml:id="_0f202">EXAMPLE 2</head><head xml:id="_1fcdd">(4S)-3,3-Diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl)]-4-[4-(dihydroxyphosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one.</head><p xml:id="_d3ae2">To a solution of (4S)-3,3-diethyl-1-[(R)-α-n-propyl-(4-methyl)-benzylaminocarbonyl]-4-[4-(diethoxyphosphinylmethyl)-phenoxy]-azetidin-2-one 
(312 mg, 
0.56 mmol) in methylene chloride (10 mL) was added 
bromotrimethylsilane (0.06 mL, 4.5 mmol) with 
stirring under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction 
mixture was stirred overnight at room temperature and 
then evaporated. Methanol (6 mL) was added, and the 
solution was stirred for 2 hours at room 
temperature. After evaporation, the product was 
purified by flash chromatography on silica gel 
(packed as a slurry in 9% methanol/methylene 
chloride). Elution was effected with 100:10:8:0.5 
chloroform-ethanol-formic acid-water. Fractions 
containing pure desired product were combined and 
evaporated; yield 58 mg; FAB MS m/z 503 (M + 1), 541 
(M + K). </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>