<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">24698835</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">US</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">67250591</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910320</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">US67250591A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">US</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">672505</idno><imprint><date>19910320</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C04B24/38</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C12P19/04</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302148</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302148A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>RAKITSKY WALTER G</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>RICHEY DANNY D</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>RAKITSKY, WALTER G.</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>RICHEY, DANNY D.</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>RAKITSKY, WALTER G.</persName><residence><address><addrLine>7271 Enders Avenue</addrLine><settlement>San Diego, CA 92122</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>RICHEY, DANNY D.</persName><residence><address><addrLine>3763 Cascade Court</addrLine><settlement>San Diego, CA 92122</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>MONSANTO CO</name><address><country type="national">US</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>MONSANTO COMPANY</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>AT</country><country>BE</country><country>DE</country><country>DK</country><country>ES</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>GR</country><country>IT</country><country>NL</country><country>PT</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  24/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  37/00        20060101CLI19981010BMRU        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  28/02        20060101ALI19981010BMRU        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C08B  37/00        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C08L   5/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  26/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  24/38        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  26/28        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C08L   5/00        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C12P  19/04        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C12R   1/05        20060101ALN20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  28/00        20060101CLI19981010BMRU        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C12P  19/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C04B  37/00        20060101ALI19981010BMRU        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C08B  37/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Welangummi mit hoher Hydratationsgeschwindigkeit</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Rapidly hydrating welan gum</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Gomme welan à vitesse d'hydratation élevée</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505096</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19960626</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505096B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_66913">Verfahren zur Herstellung eines rasch hydratisierenden 
Welangummis, welches umfaßt: 
<list type="simple"><item>a) Beimpfen geeigneter wässeriger Nährstoffmedien mit gramnegativen, 
stäbchenförmigen Bakterien vom Stamm S-130; </item><item>b) aerobes Fermentieren der Bakterien bei einem pH zwischen 
6,5 und 7,5; </item><item>c) Zusetzen von Calciumpropionat zur Brühe, Einstellen des 
pH auf 10,5 bis 12,5 und Erhitzen der Fermentationsbrühe auf 
eine Temperatur von 76,6°C bis 109,9°C (170°F bis 230°F) während 
3 bis 20 Minuten; </item><item>d) Ausfällen des Heteropolysaccharids aus dem Fermentationsmedium; </item><item>e) Trocknen des Niederschlags; und </item><item>f) Mahlen des getrockneten Niederschlags. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_664d2">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1, bei welchem Schritt (c) das Einstellen 
des pH zwischen etwa 11 und 11,5 und Erhitzen der Brühe 
auf eine Temperatur von etwa 98,8°C (210°F) während etwa 5 Minuten 
umfaßt. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b5cd8">Verfahren nach Anspruch 2, bei welchem die Einstellung des 
pH durch den Zusatz von KOH induziert wird. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a46bd">Verfahren nach Anspruch 3, bei welchem die Einstellung des 
pH durch den Zusatz von 45 % KOH induziert wird. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_63de7">Rasch hydratisierender Welangummi, welcher gemäß dem Verfahren 
nach Anspruch 1 hergestellt wird. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0435d">Zementzusammensetzung, welche Wasser, Zement, Sand und 
rasch hydratisierenden Welangummi nach Anspruch 5 umfaßt. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_84cb3">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche Aggregat umfaßt. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_42b67">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche eine Mineralmischung 
umfaßt. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_30654">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche Fasern umfaßt. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_60dd6">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche Latex umfaßt. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9ea79">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche Dispergiermittel 
umfaßt. </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5d0a1">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche eine Luft einschließende 
Mischung umfaßt.  
 </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_850e1">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche einen Verzögerer 
umfaßt. </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_193ec">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche einen Beschleuniger 
umfaßt. </p></div><div n="15" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7dc1e">Zusammensetzung nach Anspruch 6, welche eine Flüssigkeitsverlustsmischung 
umfaßt. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2e005">A process for preparing a rapidly 
hydrating welan gum comprising: 
<list type="simple"><item>a) inoculating a suitable aqueous 
nutrient media with Strain S-130 gram-negative 
rod-shaped bacteria; </item><item>b) aerobically fermenting the bacteria 
at a pH of between 6.5 and 7.5; </item><item>c) adding calcium propionate to the 
broth, adjusting the pH to 10.5-12.5 and 
heating the fermentation broth at a temperature of 
76.6°C-109.9°C (170°F-230°F) for 3-20 minutes; </item><item>d) precipitating the heteropolysaccharide 
from the fermentation media; </item><item>e) drying the precipitate; and </item><item>f) milling the dried precipitate. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_942e0">A process of Claim 1 wherein step (c) 
comprises adjusting the pH to between about 11 and 
11.5 and heating the broth at a temperature of about 98.8°C 
(210°F) for about 5 minutes. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4228d">A process of Claim 2 wherein adjustment 
of pH is induced by adding KOH. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c5efc">A process of Claim 3 wherein adjustment 
of pH is induced by adding 45% KOH. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_3700c">Rapidly hydrating welan gum prepared 
according to the process of Claim 1. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_3e115">A cement composition comprising water, 
cement, sand and rapidly hydrating welan gum of 
Claim 5.  
 </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_299df">A composition of claim 6 comprising 
aggregate. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6f44d">A composition of claim 6 comprising 
mineral admixture. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a0759">A composition of claim 6 comprising 
fiber. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ad00e">A composition of claim 6 comprising 
latex. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0d856">A composition of claim 6 comprising 
dispersant. </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6d24e">A composition of claim 6 comprising an 
air entraining admixture. </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_848fd">A composition of claim 6 comprising a 
retarder. </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_da6c2">A composition of claim 6 comprising an 
accelerator. </p></div><div n="15" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0e1a6">A composition of claim 6 comprising a 
fluid loss admixture. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0f1b6">Procédé de préparation d'une gomme welan à 
hydratation rapide comprenant : 
<list type="simple"><item>a) l'inoculation d'une bactérie gram-négative 
Souche S-130, en forme de bâtonnets, dans un milieu aqueux nutritif 
convenable ; </item><item>b) la fermentation aérobie de la bactérie à un pH 
compris entre 6,5 et 7,5 ; </item><item>c) l'addition de propionate de calcium au 
bouillon de culture, l'ajustement du pH entre 10,5 et 12,5 puis le 
chauffage du bouillon de fermentation à une température de 76,6 °C 
à 109,9 °C (170 °F à 230 °F) pendant 3 à 20 minutes ; </item><item>d) la précipitation de l'hétéro-polysaccharide à 
partir du milieu de fermentation ; </item><item>e) le séchage du précipité ; et </item><item>f) le broyage du précipité séché. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e3d4d">Procédé selon la revendication 1 dans lequel l'étape 
(c) comprend l'ajustement du pH à une valeur comprise entre environ 
11 et 11,5 puis le chauffage du bouillon à une température d'environ 
98,8 °C (210 °F) pendant environ 5 minutes. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6f780">Procédé selon la revendication 2 dans lequel 
l'ajustement du pH est provoqué par l'addition de KOH.  
 </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7ea25">Procédé selon la revendication 3 dans lequel 
l'ajustement du pH est provoqué par l'addition de KOH à 45 % . </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_3867f">Gomme welan à hydratation rapide préparée 
conformément au procédé de la revendication 1. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7b75e">Composition de ciment comprenant de l'eau, du 
ciment, du sable et de la gomme welan à hydratation rapide selon la 
revendication 5. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7a56b">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
des agrégats. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a4bb5">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un adjuvant minéral. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_534ba">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
des fibres. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0948b">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
du latex. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b074c">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un dispersant. </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_68bbf">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un adjuvant d' entraínement d'air. </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_f7a47">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un retardateur.  
 </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9c519">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un accélérateur. </p></div><div n="15" type="claim"><p xml:id="_91c62">Composition selon la revendication 6 comprenant 
un adjuvant pour perte de fluide. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><head xml:id="_6ab0d">BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_fb597">Concrete compositions contain aggregate 
(e.g., sand and rock), cement and water. When water 
is added to the cement, a paste forms which hardens 
over time to a solid structure. Various additives 
have been used in cement compositions to modify their 
properties. Long fibers such as asbestos reduce the 
sagging of these pastes and thus is beneficial when 
applying tiles to a vertical surface. Freezing point 
depressants are used when cements are to be poured in 
subfreezing temperatures.  
 </p><p xml:id="_6f9d4">Bentonite clay has been used for this 
purpose. Other polymers, such as the polyvinyl 
alcohols and methyl methacrylates, have been used to 
reduce friction when pumping these pastes and to 
otherwise modify their workability. Fumed silica is 
used as an additive to make stronger concrete with 
reduced permeability. </p><p xml:id="_450ba">United States patent 4,963,668 describes 
cement compositions comprising 0.01 to 0.9% welan gum 
by weight of dry cement to improve workability, 
suspension of aggregates, air entrainment, sag 
resistance, flow characteristics and resistance to 
water loss. </p><p xml:id="_7b93f">Incorporation of fluid-enhancing polymeric 
material into cement-containing mixtures is difficult 
when the fluid-enhancing material requires hydration. 
Such hydration must be achieved by lowering the 
initial amount of water used to mix the cement and 
sand, hydrating the polymer with water, and then 
adding the polymer/water dispersion to the initial 
cement/sand/water mix to obtain a 
cement/sand/water/polymer mixture having the desired 
final weight ratio. </p><p xml:id="_abc6a">When water is held out of the concrete to 
hydrate the polymer, the amount of water which can be 
used to initially disperse cement and sand is 
insufficient to form a uniform mix. Large golf and 
bowling ball-size agglomerates form which do not 
disperse even when the balance of the mixing water is 
added. Furthermore, pre-hydration of the polymer 
does not occur quickly enough to stay in 
synchronization with the typical 60-90 second batch 
plant mixing cycle. It is also impractical to have a  
 
large quantity of hydrated polymer solution available 
for inclusion into the concrete without significant 
additional costs for preservation, mixing, and 
storage. </p><p xml:id="_ad603">Addition of water containing hydrated 
polymer to a dry cement/sand mixture such that the 
desired cement/sand/water/polymer weight ratio is 
achieved immediately is undesirable because the 
polymer can interfere with early stages of cement 
hydration and may impair mechanical properties of the 
mixture. Such addition also makes dispersion of the 
cement particles more difficult. </p><p xml:id="_b4798">The present invention is a rapidly hydrating 
welan gum useful for improving cement workability. 
The gum is an improvement over the prior art because 
predispersion/prehydration of the gum prior to mixing 
with concrete is not required in order to obtain a 
uniform, workable mix. </p><head xml:id="_5f58f">SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_cf956">The invention is a rapidly hydrating welan 
gum which is useful for situations where welan gum 
addition in a pre-hydrated dipersion form is not 
practical. </p><p xml:id="_20ef6">The gum has hydration characteristics 
sufficient for it to be dry blended with cement and 
other chemical additives or admixture such as an air 
entraining agent, corrosion inhibitor, accelerator or 
retarder, or as a dispersion in a carrier which is 
typically a superplasticizer (dispersant), and then 
added to a preformed cement/water pre-mix. The 
preformed cement/water pre-mix may also contain 
aggregate (e.g. sand and rock) sufficient for 
concrete composition formation.  
 </p><p xml:id="_2c1fe">The polymer does not swell and generate viscosity in 
the carrier which makes it a convenient way to add 
welan gum to cementitious products. Because of its 
enhanced hydration properties, the polymer is able to 
achieve full functionality under field make-up 
conditions. Typical batch plant mixing cycles are 
from 60-120 seconds at relatively low shear rates. </p><head xml:id="_3c75d">DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION</head><p xml:id="_fb63a">Welan gum describes an industrial grade of a 
microbial polysaccharide produced by the growth of 
the Alcaligenes strain ATCC 31555 in a pure culture 
fermentation using carbohydrates as a carbon source. 
The product is recovered from the fermentation broth 
by precipitation with alcohol. Welan gum is a 
polysaccharide gum which comprises principally a 
heteropolysaccharide containing the neutral sugars 
D-glucose, D-glucuronic acid, L-rhamnose and 
L-mannose and glycosidically linked acetyl ester 
groups. The structure of this polysaccharide is 
described in Jansson PE, Lindberg B, and Widmalm G 
(1985) Carbohydrate Research 139, 217-223. </p><p xml:id="_0cbdd">The rapidly hydrating welan gum used in the 
present invention is a novel form of welan gum. Kang 
et al., United States Patent No. 4,342,866, describes 
a procedure for making welan gum that does not have 
hydration characteristics such as those of the 
rapidly hydrating welan gum of the present invention. </p><head xml:id="_d934d">Preparation of rapidly hydrating welan gum</head><p xml:id="_0fb00">This gum is prepared by a procedure which 
includes many of the steps used to prepare welan gum  
 
described in US 4,342,866 (the welan gum hereinafter 
referred to as "welan gum S-130′′), i.e., S-130 
fermentation followed by precipitation, drying and 
milling. However, the welan gum useful in the 
present invention is obtained by modification of the 
S-130 process. The modification involves adjustment 
of the fermentation broth, prior to precipitation, to 
a pH of between 10.5 and 12.5, preferably with 
KOH or soda ash, more preferably 45% KOH, followed by 
heating between 76.6°C (170°F) and 109.9°C (230°F) for approximately 
3-20 minutes. Precipitation followed by 
drying and milling occur in the normal manner. 
Preferably, the pH is adjusted to between about 11 
and 11.5, and the broth is heated for about 5 minutes 
at 98.8°C (210°F). It is also preferable to add calcium 
propionate, more preferably 0.2%, to the broth before 
pH adjustment. </p><head xml:id="_8762f">Description of the Strains used for producing rapidly 
hydrating welam gum</head><head xml:id="_2aa7e">A. Characteristics of Colonial Morpholopy</head><p xml:id="_291dd">On nutrient agar, small yellow colonies appear in 
one day at at 30°C with the diameter reaching about 
1.5 mm after 5 days' incubation. The colonies are 
round, smooth, convex, mucoid, and opaque. The 
yellow color becomes more deep and the texture of 
colonies becomes hard after prolonged incubation. </p><p xml:id="_e281e">On YM agar, small mucoid yellow colonies appear 
in one day and the diameter reaches about 3 mm after 
5 days' incubation. The colonies are round, smooth, 
convex, and opaque, but the top of the colonies are 
flat. No membraneous hard texture is observed.  
 </p><head xml:id="_12be7">B. Characteristics of Cell Morphology</head><p xml:id="_4440e">Strain S-130 is a gram-negative rod-shaped 
bacterium. On nutrient agar the average size of the 
cell is about 0.5-0.6 by 1.2-1.6 µm; ends of the 
cells are tapered and curvature was often seen. The 
size and shape of the cells do not change 
significantly after prolonged incubation. </p><p xml:id="_f6952">On YM agar the average cell size is 0.6-0.8 by 
1.6-2.0 µm, but the cell becomes longer (3-4 µm); 
accumulation of PHB is significant. Motility is 
positive. Flagella stains (modifed silver nitrate 
method) show that the strain has mixed flagellation, 
i.e., polar and lateral flagella, as well as 
peritrichous flagella. </p><head xml:id="_a4345">C. Physiolopical and Biochemical Characteristics</head><p xml:id="_3dcd6">The following are results of tests employed: </p><p xml:id="_a17f2">Cytochrome oxidase is weak or negative; catalase 
positive. </p><p xml:id="_c7523">Organism is capable of growth at 37° and 41°C, 
but not at 43°C. </p><p xml:id="_01ced">Tolerance to 3.0% NaCl, but not to 6.5% NaCl. </p><p xml:id="_f3d70">Growth at pH between 5 and 12. </p><p xml:id="_2aac4">Aerobic acid but not gas was produced from 
various carbohydrates, such as: 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>D-xylose</cell><cell>lactose </cell></row><row><cell>L-arabinose</cell><cell>maltose </cell></row><row><cell>D-glucose</cell><cell>melibiose </cell></row><row><cell>fructose</cell><cell>sucrose </cell></row><row><cell>galactose</cell><cell>trehalose </cell></row><row><cell>mannose</cell><cell>raffinose </cell></row></table></figure>  
 
Litmus milk was reduced, but not peptonized. </p><p xml:id="_bdffe">ADH was positive, but not LDC, ODC, and PDA. </p><p xml:id="_1bf52">MR positive, but negative for VP, indole, 
and urease. </p><p xml:id="_10eca">Esculin gelatin (weak) and Tween™ 80 (weak) 
were hydrolyzed, but not casein, starch, cellulose, 
pectin. </p><p xml:id="_c9634">No phosphatase, and haemolysis negative. </p><p xml:id="_cf4bf">0.1% triphenyltetrazolium chloride was not 
inhibitory. </p><p xml:id="_42c55">Survival at 60°C for 30 minutes. </p><p xml:id="_1e3b8">Organisms grow on EMB agar and Tellurite 
Blood, but not on SS and MacConkey agar. </p><head xml:id="_4d448">D. Antibiotic Susceptibility Test</head><p xml:id="_e3454">The strain S-130 is susceptible to the 
following antibiotics. 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Kanamycin</cell><cell>30 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Neomycin</cell><cell>30 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Chlortetracycline</cell><cell>5 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Novobiocin</cell><cell>30 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Erythromycin</cell><cell>15 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Tetracycline</cell><cell>30 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Gentamicin</cell><cell>10 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Carbenicillin</cell><cell>50 µg </cell></row></table></figure> 
and not susceptible to: 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Penicillin</cell><cell>10 units </cell></row><row><cell>Streptomycin</cell><cell>10 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Colistin</cell><cell>10 µg </cell></row><row><cell>Polymyxin B</cell><cell>300 units </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_cebdb">E. Nutritional Characteristics</head><p xml:id="_e8846">Organic growth factors are not required and 
ammonium salts serve as the sole nitrogen source. A 
total of 30 organic compounds are utilized as sole 
source of carbon and energy. Most carbohydrates are 
utilized. </p><head xml:id="_60734">F. G + C Content of the DNA</head><p xml:id="_3c1d0">No DNA analysis was performed. </p><head xml:id="_a62ad">G. Identification by API System</head><p xml:id="_03e67">The strain could not be identified by this 
system. </p><head xml:id="_b2154">H. Identification</head><p xml:id="_52e14">The strain S-130 is a gram-negative aerobic 
rod-shaped organism. The mode of flagellation of the 
organism is mixed; polar and peritrichous flagella 
(possibly degenerate flagella) are seen. According 
to Bergey's Manual (8th Edition), such organisms 
belong as a member of the genus Alcaligenes.  
 
<figure><table cols="4"><row><cell>Biochemical and Other Miscellaneous Tests Employed for the Strain S-130 </cell></row><row><cell>Oxidase: Kovac's</cell><cell>+(weak)</cell><cell>Hydrolysis of: </cell></row><row><cell>Pathotech</cell><cell>+(weak)</cell><cell>Gelatin</cell><cell>+(weak) </cell></row><row><cell/><cell/><cell>Casein</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Catalase</cell><cell>+</cell><cell>Starch</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>OF medium: </cell></row><row><cell>Oxidative</cell><cell>+</cell><cell>Tween 80</cell><cell>+(weak) </cell></row><row><cell>Fermentative</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Pectin</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Gas from glucose</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Alginate</cell><cell>NT </cell></row><row><cell>H2S production</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Cellulose</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>TS1 from cystine</cell><cell>±</cell><cell>Chitin</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Ammonium from</cell><cell>NT</cell><cell>DNA</cell><cell>NT </cell></row><row><cell>peptone </cell></row><row><cell>β-Galactosidase (ONPG)</cell><cell>+</cell><cell>Esculin</cell><cell>+ </cell></row><row><cell>Argnine dihydrolase</cell><cell>+ </cell></row><row><cell>Lysine</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Growth on </cell></row><row><cell>decarboxylase</cell><cell/><cell>various media: </cell></row><row><cell>Ornithine decarboxylase</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>EMB agar</cell><cell>+ </cell></row><row><cell>Tryptophan deaminase</cell><cell>NT</cell><cell>MacConkey agar</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Phenylalaline deaminase</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>SS agar</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Urease</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Mannitol salt agar</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Indole</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>TCBS agar</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>MR test</cell><cell>+</cell><cell>Tinsdale tellurite </cell></row><row><cell>VP test</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>blood agar</cell><cell>+ </cell></row><row><cell>Nitrate reduction</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Pseudosel agar</cell><cell>NT </cell></row><row><cell>Nitrite reduction</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Denitrification</cell><cell>NT</cell><cell>Pigment production: </cell></row><row><cell>N2-fixation:</cell><cell/><cell>King A medium</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Growth in Burk's medium</cell><cell>+</cell><cell>King B medium</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Nitrogenase activity</cell><cell>NT </cell></row><row><cell>Malonate (oxidation)</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Dry reaction: </cell></row><row><cell>Phosphatase</cell><cell>-</cell><cell>Congo red</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Haemolysis (sheep blood)</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Litmus milk: acid, </cell></row><row><cell>reduction only </cell></row><row><cell>3-ketolactose </cell></row><row><cell>production</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Survival at 60°C </cell></row><row><cell>for 30 min.</cell><cell>+ </cell></row><row><cell>TSI: Slant</cell><cell>Acid </cell></row><row><cell>Butt</cell><cell>No growth </cell></row><row><cell>Gas</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>Egg Yolk Reaction</cell><cell>- </cell></row><row><cell>+ = positive </cell></row><row><cell>- = negative </cell></row><row><cell>NT = not tested </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_4995c">Fermentation conditions</head><p xml:id="_9aebc">Heteropolysaccharide is produced during the 
aerobic fermentation of suitable aqueous nutrient 
media under controlled conditions via inoculation 
with the organism of the unnamed Alcaligenes 
species. The media contain sources of carbon, 
nitrogen and inorganic salts. </p><p xml:id="_d5ead">In general, carbohydrates (for example, 
glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, xylose, mannitol 
and the like) can be used either alone or in 
combination as sources of assimilable carbon in the 
nutrient medium. The exact quantity of the 
carbohydrate source or sources utilized in the medium 
depends in part upon the other ingredients of the 
medium but, in general, the amount of carbohydrate 
usually varies between about 2% and 5% by weight of 
the medium. Preferably 3% glucose is used. These 
carbon sources can be used individually, or several 
such carbon sources may be combined in the medium. 
In general, many proteinaceous materials may be used 
as nitrogen sources in the fermentation process. 
Suitable nitrogen sources include, for example, yeast 
hydrolysates, primary yeast, soybean meal, cottonseed 
flour, hydrolysates of casein, corn steep liquor, 
distiller's solubles and the like. The sources of 
nitrogen, either alone or in combination, are used in 
amounts ranging from about 0.05% to 0.5% by weight of 
the aqueous medium. </p><p xml:id="_5a19e">Among the nutrient inorganic salts which can 
be incorporated in the culture media are the  
 
customary salts capable of yielding sodium, 
potassium, ammonium, calcium, phosphate, sulfate, 
chloride, carbonate, and the like ions. Also 
included are trace metals such as cobalt, manganese, 
iron and magnesium. </p><p xml:id="_1bdcc">It should be noted that the media described 
in the examples are merely illustrative of the wide 
variety of media which may be employed, and are not 
intended to be limitative. </p><p xml:id="_c5c32">As an alternative medium, S-130 may be grown 
under low Ca++ conditions, i.e., in deionized water, 
or some other aqueous system substantially free of 
Ca++ ions (i.e., less than about 4ppm Ca++ per 1% gum 
in the final fermentor broth). </p><p xml:id="_00c6c">The fermentation is carried out at 
temperatures ranging from about 25°C to 35°C; 
however, for optimum results it is preferable to 
conduct the fermentation at temperatures of from 
about 28°C to 35°C. The pH of the nutrient media for 
growing the Alcaligenese culture and producing the 
polysaccharide S-130 can vary from about 6.5 to 7.5. </p><p xml:id="_98828">A small scale fermentation is conveniently 
carried out by inoculating a suitable nutrient medium 
with the culture, and after transfer to a production 
medium permitting the fermentation to proceed at a 
constant temperature of about 30°C on a shaker for 
several days. </p><p xml:id="_1024a">The fermentation is initiated in a 
sterilized flask of medium via one or more stages of 
seed development. The nutrient medium for the seed 
stage may be any suitable combination of carbon and  
 
nitrogen sources. The seed flask is shaken in a 
constant temperature chamber at about 30°C for 1-2 
days, or until growth is satisfactory, and some of 
the resulting growth is used to inoculate either a 
second stage seed or the production medium. 
Intermediate stage seed flasks, when used, are 
developed in essentially the same manner; that is, 
part of the contents of the flask from the last seed 
stage are used to inoculate the production medium. 
The inoculated flasks are shaken at a constant 
temperature for several days, and at the end of the 
incubation period the contents of the flasks are 
recovered by precipitation with a suitable alcohol 
such as isopropanol. </p><p xml:id="_a0a9c">For large scale work, it is preferable to 
conduct the fermentation in suitable tanks provided 
with an agitator and a means of aerating the 
fermentation medium. According to this method, the 
nutrient medium is made upin the tank and sterilized 
by heating at temperatures of up to about 121°C. 
Upon cooling, the sterilized medium is inoculated 
with a previously grown seed of the producing 
culture, and the fermentation is permitted to proceed 
for a period of time as, for example, from 2 to 4 
days while agitating and/or aerating the nutrient 
medium and maintaining the temperature at about 
30°C. This method of producing the 
heteropolysaccharide is particularly suited for the 
preparation of large quantities.  
 </p><head xml:id="_ea1c1">Post-fermentation</head><p xml:id="_e061f">After fermentation, calcium propionate is 
preferably added to the fermentation broth, and the 
fermentation broth is adjusted to a pH of between 
10.5 and 12.5 with KOH or soda ash, preferably 
45% KOH. pH adjustment is followed by heating between 
76.6°C (170°F) and 109.9°C (230°F) for 3-20 minutes. 
Preferably, the pH is adjusted to between about 11 and 
11.5, and the broth is heated for about 5 minutes at 98.8°C 
(210°F), and amount of calcium propionate added is about 
0.2%. </p><p xml:id="_212f2">After the adjustment period, the gum is 
precipitated using a suitable alcohol such as 
isopropanol. The precipitate is dried in typical 
fashion. </p><p xml:id="_24235">After drying, the product is milled according 
to standard milling procedures. Target mesh size 
varies according to desired product characteristics. 
For example, larger mesh size material, e.g. 80 mesh, 
is preferred for transport of the material using 
conventional dry material handling systems. Smaller 
mesh size material, e.g. 140 mesh, is preferred for 
enhanced rapid hydration performance. In all cases, 
however, the gum produced according to the described 
procedure, using described fermentation broth pH 
adjustment and subsequent heating steps, possesses 
rapid hydration characteristics as compared to 
conventionally prepared welan gum produced according 
to the procedure described in U.S. 4,342,866. </p><head xml:id="_9dc8e">Analysis</head><p xml:id="_de7c8">Glucuronic acid was identified by using the 
method of Bhatti et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta 22 
(1970) 339-347. Absolute configurations of the sugars 
were determined by the methods devised by Gerwig et 
al., Carbohydrate Research 77 (1979) 1-7, and by  
 
Leontein et al., Carbohydrate Research 62 (1978) 
359-362. </p><p xml:id="_db4c4">Methylation analyses were performed essentially 
as described in Jansson et al., Chem. Common. 
Univ. Stockholm, 8 (1976) 1-75. Methylated polymers 
were recovered by dialysis against water, followed by 
freeze-drying. Low-molecular-weight products were 
recovered by reversed phase chromatography on Sep-Pak™ 
C18 cartridges, Waeghe et al., Carbohydrate Research 
123 (1983) 281-304. The sample was diluted with an 
equal volume of water and applied to the column. This 
was washed with water and acetonitrile-water (15:85), 
and the sample was eluted with acetonitrile. </p> <head xml:id="_d8aba">Carboxyl-reduction of methylated polysaccharide</head><p xml:id="_5f8bc">The methylated polysaccharide (1.5 mg) was 
dissolved in freshly distilled tetrahydrofuran (2 
mL). Lithium borohydride (10 mg) was added and the 
solution boiled under reflux for 2 hours. Excess of 
lithium borohydride was decomposed with M acetic acid, 
chloroform (5 mL) was added, and the solution was 
washed several times with water, dried, and concentrated. </p><head xml:id="_66dce">Uronic acid-degradation</head> <p xml:id="_27886">To a solution of the methylated polysaccharide 
(1.5 mg) in dimethyl sulfoxide (1.5 mL) were added 
a trace of toluene-p-sulfonic acid and 2,2-dimethoxypropane 
(0.1 mL) in order to eliminate any 
water present. Sodium methylsulfinylmethanide in 
dimethyl sulfoxide (2M, 1 mL) was added, and the  
 
mixture was agitated in an ultrasonic bath for 30 
minutes and kept at room temperature for 15 hours. 
Trideuteriomethyl iodide (0.5 mL) was added with 
external cooling and the mixture agitated in the 
ultrasonic bath for 30 minutes. The excess of methyl 
iodide was removed by flushing with nitrogen, and the 
solution was diluted with water and added to a Sep-Pak™ 
C18 cartridge. The material was recovered as 
described above. The product was hydrolyzed with 2M 
trifluoroacetic acid for 15 hours at 100°C and the 
mixture of methylated products was analyzed (Table II, 
column C). </p> <p xml:id="_03a28">Approximately 50% of the rapidly hydrating 
welan gum polysaccharide units contain an O-acetyl 
group. An acid hydrolysate of the fermented polysaccharide 
contained glucose, rhamnose and mannose in the 
relative proportions 43:46:11. It further contained 
glucuronic acid, identified by g.l.c. of a sample that 
had been methanolyzed and trimethylsilylated 
using the procedure described by Bhatti et al. </p> <p xml:id="_cf537">Absolute configurations of component sugars 
were determined by g.l.c. of the glycosides obtained 
on solvolysis with chiral 2-butanol followed by 
trimethylation, as devised by Gerwig et al. The 
glucose and glucuronic acid have the D configuration 
and the rhamnose has the L configuration. The mannose 
has the L configuration. This was confirmed by g.l.c. 
of the glycosides obtained on solvolysis with chiral 
2-octanol followed by acetylation, as devised by 
Leontein et al.  
 </p> <p xml:id="_806b7">Methylation analysis without and with 
carboxyl-reduction of the methylated polysaccharide, 
gave the products listed below, columns A and B 
respectively. 
<figure><table cols="7"><row><cell>METHYLATION ANALYSIS OF THE POLYSACCHARIDE AND SOME DEGRADATION PRODUCTS </cell></row><row><cell>Sugar</cell><cell>T</cell><cell>Mole % </cell></row><row><cell/><cell/><cell>A </cell><cell>B </cell><cell>C </cell><cell>D </cell><cell>E </cell></row><row><cell>1,2,3,5-Rhamnitol</cell><cell>0.38</cell><cell/><cell/><cell/><cell>13</cell><cell>22 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3,4-Rha</cell><cell>0.59</cell><cell>12</cell><cell>7</cell><cell>16 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3-Rha</cell><cell>0.94</cell><cell>26</cell><cell>21</cell><cell>18 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3,4,6-Glc</cell><cell>1.00</cell><cell/><cell/><cell/><cell>54</cell><cell>36 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3,4,6-Man</cell><cell>1.00</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>7</cell><cell>19</cell><cell/><cell>5 </cell></row><row><cell>2,4,6-Glc</cell><cell>1.67</cell><cell>26</cell><cell>23</cell><cell>43 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3,6-Glc</cell><cell>1.92</cell><cell/><cell/><cell/><cell>33</cell><cell>34 </cell></row><row><cell>2,6-Glc</cell><cell>2.79</cell><cell>26</cell><cell>23</cell><cell>4</cell><cell/><cell>3 </cell></row><row><cell>2,3-Glc</cell><cell>3.56</cell><cell/><cell>19 </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_d65eb">In order to determine the sequence of the 
sugar residues, the rapidly hydrating welan gum polysaccharide 
was subjected to a uronic acid-degradation 
(Lindberg et al. Carbohydrate Research 28 (1973) 
351-357 and Aspinall et al. Carbohydrate Research 57 
(1977) c23-c26). The fully methylated polysaccharide 
was treated with sodium methylsulfinylmethanide in 
dimethyl sulfoxide, methylated (using trideuteriomethyl 
iodide), and hydrolyzed, and the mixture of 
methylated sugars was analyzed (Table II, column C). 
2,6-di-O-methyl-4-O-trideuteriomethyl-D-glucose was 
derived from the branching D-glucopyranosyl residue, 
the 4-position of which was liberated on degradation 
of the uronic acid. The 3-substituted D-glucopyranosyl 
residue linked to 0-4 of the uronic acid was 
released by β-elimination and further degraded by 
β-elimination, with release of the 4-substituted 
L-rhamnopyranosyl residue. A considerable part of 
this residue was also degraded. </p><p xml:id="_57484">The polysaccharide imparts viscosity to an 
aqueous medium when dissolved in water in low 
concentrations. Because of this, its sensitivity to 
shear and overall rheology, it is useful as a 
thickening, suspending, emulsifying, stabilizing, 
lubricating, film-forming, or binding agent, 
especially in aqueous systems. In particular, it has 
uses in the following applications or products: 
adhesives, wall-joint cements, grouts and mortars, 
spackling compounds, can sealing, boiler compounds, 
latex creaming, welding-rod fluxes, brazing pastes, 
ceramic glazes and extrusions, cleaners and polishes,  
 
toys, emulsions (latex, asphalt, silicone), silver 
recovery, seed coatings, spray control for pesticides 
or herbicides, emulsifiable concentrated and flowable 
pesticides and herbicides, tobacco binders, 
water-based inks, lithographic fountain solutions, 
leather finishes, hydro-mulching and hydro-seeding, 
textile printing and finishing, wet-end paper 
additives, wet-end paper retention and formation aid, 
anti-stick compounds, mold-release agents, liquid 
resins, slurry and packaged explosives, petroleum and 
water-well drilling muds, petroleum workover and 
completion fluids, petroleum stimulating fluids, 
fracturing, spacer fluids, gravel packing cosmetics, 
pharmaceutical suspensions and emulsions. </p><head xml:id="_f54fd">EXAMPLE 1</head><head xml:id="_3ac67">Fermentation and Recovery Procedure for Producing 
Rapidly Hydrating Welan Gum</head><head xml:id="_6a2d3">A. Culture Maintenance</head><p xml:id="_e1186">The unnamed Alcaligenes organism, ATCC 
31555, grows quite well on NA agar, with good 
colonial morphology. The incubation temperature is 
30°C. The organism produces a yellow pigment.  
 </p><head xml:id="_5e252">B. Seed Preparation</head><p xml:id="_5b5e0">Flask seeds are prepared in YM broth 
incubated at 30°C for 24 hours, then used to 
inoculate seed medium which is the same as final 
fermentor medium. A 5% inoculum is used for a 14L 
fermentor. </p><head xml:id="_0f351">C. Final Fermentor Medium</head><p xml:id="_386a2">The following medium gives acceptable 
results in the 14L fermentor and can be used for 
larger scale 20L and 70L fermentors: 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Glucose</cell><cell>3.0% </cell></row><row><cell>K2HPO4</cell><cell>0.05% </cell></row><row><cell>Promosoy</cell><cell>0.05% </cell></row><row><cell>NH4NO3</cell><cell>0.09% </cell></row><row><cell>MgSO47H2O</cell><cell>0.01% </cell></row><row><cell>Fe++</cell><cell>1 ppm </cell></row><row><cell>HoLe salts</cell><cell>1 ml/L </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_cb3d9">The pH is controlled between 6.5 and 7.5. 
At 0 hours, pH is 7.3 and residual carbon source was 
measured to be 3.07%. After 25.5 hours, pH was 7.0 
and beer viscosity measured 2350. After 63.5 hours, 
pH was 6.3 and beer viscosity 3950, and the reaction 
is terminated by adding 4% isopropanol. </p><p xml:id="_3cc42">HoLe salts are a trace element solution 
containing tartrate, magnesium molybdate, CoCl3, 
ZnCl2, CuCl2, boric acid, manganese chloride and 
ferrous sulfate.  
 </p><p xml:id="_c714b">The initial agitation and aeration rates 
were 400rpm and 3L/M, respectively. The aeration 
remained constant throughout the fermentation. The 
agitation was increased as necessary during the 
fermentation to ensure good mixing. Maximum 
agitation was 1600 rpm. </p><p xml:id="_57d01">When a low calcium product is desired, the 
medium above is used with deionized water. </p><head xml:id="_df3fe">D. Broth Adjustment</head><p xml:id="_a179b">During this stage, 0.2% calcium propionate 
is added to the broth. The fermentation broth is 
adjusted to a pH of 11-11.5 with 45% KOH, followed by 
heating at 98.8°C (210°F) for 5 minutes. </p><head xml:id="_0d92a">E. Recovery</head><p xml:id="_f3cdd">Good fibers are produced under precipitation 
conditions giving 58-62% spent IPA. </p><head xml:id="_bc567">F. Drying</head><p xml:id="_aa236">Product is recovered after drying with 
rotary air dryers. </p><p xml:id="_a42cb">After drying, the product is milled 
according to standard milling procedures. Target 
mesh size varies according to desired product 
characteristics. For example, larger mesh size 
material, e.g. 80 mesh, is preferred for transport of 
the material using conventional dry material handling 
systems. Smaller mesh size material, e.g. 140 mesh, 
is preferred for enhanced rapid hydration 
performance. In all cases, however, the gum produced 
according to the described procedure, using described 
fermentation broth pH adjustment and subsequent  
 
heating steps, possesses rapid hydration 
characteristics as compared to conventionally 
prepared welan gum produced according to the 
procedure described in U.S. 4,342,866. </p><p xml:id="_4d8d4">Measurements of the gum of the present 
invention in 2% KCl show excellent viscosity 
development, with excellent NaCl stability and 
maintenance of viscosity up to at least 148.7°C (300°F); slight 
gelation of gum is observed in 2% KCl. </p><p xml:id="_f1259">Cement compositions which can be made with 
the subject rapidly hydrating welan gum comprise 
cement, fine and/or coarse aggregate, and other 
optional additives used for various purposes by those 
skilled in the art. Various types of cements, as 
well as additives, are described below. </p><p xml:id="_ea663">A typical composition for forming a cubic 
yard (0.76 m3) of concrete includes about 181-363 kg (400-800 lbs.) cement; 
about 54-218 kg (120-480 lbs.) of water, preferably 0.3-0.6 
weight fraction based on weight of cement used; about 
544-1814 kg (1200-4000 lbs.) of fine and/or coarse aggregate, 
preferably 1:3-5 weight ratio of cement: fine and/or 
coarse aggregate; 0.045-0.91 kg (0.1-2 lbs.) rapidly hydrating welan 
gum of the present invention, and other optional 
desirable additives. </p><p xml:id="_94910">Cement compositions of the present invention 
are prepared using a procedure whereby a portion of 
the cement powder, optionally with other dry 
ingredients, is dry-blended with rapidly hydrating 
welan gum prior to addition to a mixture of cement, 
water, and fine and/or coarse aggregate. The 
dry-blend comprises the total amount of rapidly 
hydrating welan gum to be added and an amount of 
cement approximately equal to 5 to 20 times by weight 
the amount of rapidly hydrating welan gum to be added.  
 </p><p xml:id="_f6522">In one example, 0.45 kg (1 lb.) of rapidly hydrating 
welan gum is combined with 4.5 kg (10 lbs.) of cement to form 
a dry-blend. 254 kg (560 lbs.) of dry cement is mixed 
together with 125 kg (275 lbs.) of water, 894 kg (1970 lbs.) coarse 
aggregate and 519 kg (1145 lbs.) of fine aggregate, for a 
period of time, to distribute the cement and 
aggregate and begin hydration. Thereafter, the gum 
and cement dry blend is added. </p><p xml:id="_1311d">Cement compositions include hydraulic 
cements, i.e., finely ground and calcined calcium 
silicates and calcium aluminates which when mixed 
with water react to form a hard, rock-like mass. 
Cement is e.g. portland cement, portland pozzolan 
cement (containing about 15-40% pozzolan) blast 
furnace slag cement, slag cement (containing blast 
furnace slag and hydrated lime), masonry cement 
(e.g., adhesive mortars), construction concrete 
(containing sand and aggregate), oilfield cement 
(i.e., cements with retarders to prevent rapid 
setting so that they may be used at high temperatures 
and pressure environments of deep wells), aluminous 
cement (containing high amounts of calcium 
aluminates), expansive cements (containing high 
sulfate and alumina concentrations and which expand 
on hardening), air entrained cement (containing 
compounds which retain air bubbles and thus yield 
frost- and chemical-resistant concretes), lightweight 
concrete (containing low density materials such as 
furnace clinker, pumice, foamed slag, fly ash, gas, 
wood, etc.) heavy concrete (containing dense material  
 
such as barite, iron ore (i.e., illmenite or 
hematite), steel, etc.), and low heat concrete (with 
modified compositions that minimize heat generation 
during the setting process). </p><p xml:id="_16a9a">Oilfield cements are basically the same as 
those used in construction (i.e., portland cement). 
The American Petroleum Institute has set specifications 
for oilfield cements. These as classified as 
"A" through "H", and "N", all of which are useful in 
compositions of this invention. </p><p xml:id="_3d10f">Cement additives in oilfield cements are 
materials mixed in the slurry for reducing or 
increasing density, increasing volume at reduced unit 
cost, accelerating or retarding slurry thickening 
time, increasing strength, preventing loss of whole 
cement slurry, increasing or improving the durability, 
decreasing water loss from the slurry, and increasing 
or decreasing the viscosity of the cement slurry. </p><p xml:id="_65d0a">It is a purpose of the invention to use 
rapidly hydrating welan gum for controlling water 
loss from cement slurries and as a suspending agent. 
The gum increases workability of cement compositions. 
The increased workability is conveniently achieved by 
dry blending rapidly hydrating welan gum with a 
portion of cement and then adding the gum/cement 
blend to a cement/water pre-mix. Incorporation of 
rapidly hydrating welan gum in this fashion 
eliminates the need for prehydrating the gum prior to 
a cement/sand/water mix and avoids interference with 
the hydration reaction of cement and water.  
 </p><p xml:id="_468e1">It improves the ability of cement slurries 
to be easily placed in crowded area such as around 
re-inforcing bars without aggregate settling. </p><p xml:id="_396ca">Cement slurries containing rapidly hydrating 
welan gum show more uniform density as the curing 
process proceeds. The suspension properties of the 
gum keep the slurry more uniform, yielding less 
aggregate settling and less free water on the surface 
of the slurry. </p><p xml:id="_22794">Cement additives which are useful in 
compositions of this invention include mineral 
admixtures, accelerators, retarders, fluid loss 
reducers, dispersants, extenders and loss circulation 
materials, antifoam agents, and weighting materials. </p><p xml:id="_90bd9">Mineral admixtures include silica fume, fly 
ash, blast furnace slag or fibers. </p><p xml:id="_4dae3">Accelerators include calcium chloride, 
sodium silicate (Diacel™ A), sodium chloride (salt), 
ammonium chloride (NH4Cl), or combinations or 
solutions of these salts. </p><p xml:id="_e3e4d">Retarders include calcium or sodium 
lignosulfonates or other lignin derivatives, borax 
compounds, CM HEC (carboxymethylhydroxethylcellulose), 
sodium or calcium gluconates, and sugars. </p><p xml:id="_94b04">Fluid loss reducers include bentonite, high, 
medium and low viscosity HEC, polyethylene imines and 
amines, long chain alcohols, CM HEC, polyvinyl 
pyrrolidones, and fine inorganic solids (such as 
talc).  
 </p><p xml:id="_a4a63">Dispersants include sodium citrates, sodium 
napthalene sulfonates, lignin and lignin derivatives 
to reduce viscosities of cement slurries and to aid 
in fluid loss control by dispersing the particles in 
the slurry. </p><p xml:id="_532af">Extenders and loss circulation materials 
include pozzalons, asphalts, gilsonites, bentonite, 
diatomaecous earth, and various materials to plug 
passages where loss of whole cement occurs. </p><p xml:id="_2c412">Antifoam agents include long chain alcohols 
such as octanols, stearates and their salts. </p><p xml:id="_d1125">Weighting materials include barite, 
hematite, and illmenite to increase the density of 
cement slurries. </p><p xml:id="_674ce">The cement compositions of this invention 
can be conveniently prepared by adding rapidly 
hydrating welan gum in dry form to the rest of the 
compositions. The invention is further defined by 
reference to the following preparations and examples, 
which are intended to be illustrative and not 
limiting. </p><head xml:id="_8ca65">EXAMPLE 2</head><p xml:id="_13f4b">A cubic yard (0.76 m3) of concrete was prepared 
according to the procedure of the present invention. 
To prepare a suitable cement slurry, 2.7 kg (6 lbs.) of API 
type G cement was dry blended with 0.14 kg (0.3 lbs.) 140 mesh 
rapidly hydrating welan gum prepared according to the 
procedure described in Example 1. The dry blend was 
added to a cement/water aggregate pre-mix, containing 254 kg 
(560 lbs.) cement, 816 kg (1800 lbs.) aggregate, and 128 kg (283 lbs.) 
water, to produce a homogeneous, smooth soft cement 
slurry, the viscosity of which increased with 
increasing gum concentration and with time.  
 </p><head xml:id="_cf10f">EXAMPLE 3</head><p xml:id="_3c382">A cement slurry was prepared according to 
the procedure of Example 2, except that Portland type 
A cement was used instead of API type G cement, and 
0.5 to 0.8% Lomar PW dispersant was added to the 
gum/cement dry blend. The resulting slurry produced 
a homogeneous, smooth soft cement slurry. </p><head xml:id="_672bb">EXAMPLE 4 (Control)</head><p xml:id="_bde78">Following the procedure of Example 3, but 
substituting welan gum prepared according to the 
procedure described in U.S. 4,342,866 for rapidly 
hydrating welan gum, cement, water, dispersant and 
gum were mixed. Because the gum did not hydrate 
properly, a low-viscosity, non-homogeneous material 
containing visually distinguishable gel balls was 
obtained. </p><head xml:id="_6ddb9">EXAMPLE 5</head><p xml:id="_dc078">A slurry containing H cement, 0.7% 
dispersant, 46% water and 0.3% rapidly hydrating 
welan gum (all based on dry weight), according to the 
procedure described in Example 2, was prepared. A 
smooth, soft, homogeneous cement slurry was obtained. </p><head xml:id="_eb96f">EXAMPLE 6</head><head xml:id="_9c065">Another Fermentation and Recovery Procedure for 
Producing Rapidly Hydrating Welan Gum</head><head xml:id="_bc5cc">A. Culture Maintenance</head><p xml:id="_fd189">The unnamed Alcaligenes organism, ATCC 31555 
grows quite well on nutrient agar. The incubation 
temperature is 30°C. The organism produces a yellow 
pigment.  
 </p><head xml:id="_48293">B. Seed Preparation</head><p xml:id="_27bfc">Flask seeds are prepared in YM broth 
incubated at 30°C for 24 hours with shaking. Fresh 
YM broth seeds are then started using a 1% inoculum. 
After 24 hours incubation at 30°C with shaking these 
YM seeds are used to inoculate a one-gallon (3.84) fermentor 
containing a seed medium which is the same as the 
final fermentor medium except that it contains 0.5% 
K2HPO4. The inoculum size is 6.7% and the 
fermentation temperature is 30°C. The air flow rate 
is one L/M and the agitation is set at 400 RPM. At 
25 hours this seed was used to start a 30 L fermentor 
with an inoculum size of 5%. </p><head xml:id="_b88da">C. Final Fermentor Medium</head><p xml:id="_80371">The following medium gives acceptable 
results in the 30 L fermentor and can be used for 
larger scale fermentors such as 70 L. 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Glucose</cell><cell>3.0% </cell></row><row><cell>K2HPO4</cell><cell>0.13% </cell></row><row><cell>Promosoy</cell><cell>0.25% </cell></row><row><cell>NH4NO3</cell><cell>0.03% </cell></row><row><cell>MgSO4•7H20</cell><cell>0.05% </cell></row><row><cell>Fe4•7H2O</cell><cell>10 ppm </cell></row><row><cell>Antifoam (Hodag™ K-21) </cell></row><row><cell>Tap water </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_732fa">The pH is controlled between 6.5 and 7.5. At 
0 hours, the residual carbon source was measured to be 
3.08%. At 69 hours, the pH was 6.55 and the beer 
viscosity was 42,500 kg/cm/sec (cP.)  
 </p><p xml:id="_31e69">The initial agitation and aeration rates were 
300rpm and 5L/M, respectively. The aeration rate was 
increased to 10 L/M at 20 hours and then remained 
constant through the fermentation. The agitation was 
increased to 700 RPM (maximum) at 20 hours. </p><p xml:id="_f5608">When a low calcium product is desired, the 
medium above is used with deionized water. </p><head xml:id="_272ac">D. Broth Adjustment</head><p xml:id="_f797f">During this stage, 0.2% calcium propionate is 
added to the broth. The fermentation broth is 
adjusted to a pH of 11-11.5 with 45% KOH, followed by 
heating at 98.8°C (210°F) for 5 minutes. </p><head xml:id="_2ad87">E. Recovery</head><p xml:id="_2351e">Good fibers are produced under precipitation 
conditions giving 58-62% spent IPA. </p><head xml:id="_f2a50">F. Drying</head><p xml:id="_f7596">Product is recovered after drying with rotary 
air dryers. </p><p xml:id="_9f769">After drying, the product is milled according 
to standard milling procedures. Target mesh size 
varies according to desired product characteristics. 
For example, larger mesh size material, e.g. 80 mesh, 
is preferred for transport of the material using 
conventional dry material handling systems. Smaller 
mesh size material, e.g. 140 mesh, is preferred for 
enhanced rapid hydration performance. In all cases, 
however, the gum produced according to the described  
 
procedure, using described fermentation broth pH 
adjustment and subsequent heating steps, possesses 
rapid hydration characteristics as compared to 
conventionally prepared welan gum produced according 
to the procedure described in U.S. 4,342,866. </p><p xml:id="_33cbd">This product was demonstrated to have 
hydration and solution properties similar to the 
sample described in the Example 1. </p><head xml:id="_738f4">EXAMPLE 7</head><p xml:id="_59d4d">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at 11 and the 
temperature is maintained at 76.6°C (170°F) for 5 minutes. The 
dried gum is milled to 140 mesh size. </p><head xml:id="_521c0">EXAMPLE 8</head><p xml:id="_75ad3">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at 11 and the 
temperature is maintained at 98.8°C (210°F) for 5 minutes. The 
dried gum is milled to 80 mesh size. </p><head xml:id="_5536b">EXAMPLE 9</head><p xml:id="_a04cb">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at 11, the temperature 
is maintained at 98.8°C (210°F) for 5 minutes, and the broth is 
sheared through a high shear mixer. The dried gum is 
milled to 80 mesh size.  
 </p><head xml:id="_0e4b7">EXAMPLE 10</head><p xml:id="_19260">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at 11.5 and the 
temperature is maintained at 76.6°c (170°F). The dried gum is 
milled to 80 mesh size. </p><head xml:id="_43de6">EXAMPLE 11</head><p xml:id="_7f0b3">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at pH 11.5, the 
temperature is maintained at 76.6°C (170°F) and the broth is 
sheared through a high shear mixer. The dried gum is 
milled to 80 mesh size. </p><head xml:id="_1dc14">EXAMPLE 12</head><p xml:id="_4a338">A rapidly hydrating welan gum is prepared 
according to the procedure of Example 1 wherein during 
recovery the pH is controlled at 11 and the 
temperature is maintained at 99.3-101.6°C (211-215°F). The dried gum 
is milled to 80 mesh size. </p><head xml:id="_00774">EXAMPLE 13</head><p xml:id="_5db8c">Control welan gum is prepared according to 
the procedure described in Example 1 with the 
exception that Step D ("Adjustment") is not performed 
The procedure includes step C, followed by heating of 
the broth to 76.6°C (170°F) for 5 minutes, followed by Step E. 
Three different batches were prepared (13a, 13b and 
13c) and each was milled to 40 mesh size and 150 mesh 
size.  
 </p><head xml:id="_07228">EXAMPLE 14</head><head xml:id="_0cd6f">Hydratation Test</head><p xml:id="_8a64c">In order to determine hydration characteristics 
for rapidly hydrating welan gums produced in 
accordance with the procedure of the invention, the 
gums were combined with polyethylene glycol and 
viscosity measurements were made using a Solution Rate 
Tester. </p><p xml:id="_5e726">The tester can measure the hydration rate of 
polymer solutions by monitoring the torque on a beaker 
as it is being stirred at a constant speed. As the 
gum dissolves and the viscosity increases, beaker 
torque increases. While factors such as turbulence, 
non-laminar flow, pseudoplasticity, etc. prevent a 
direct correlation of torque reading and viscosity, 
plotting torque against time provides a good 
indication of viscosity development. </p><p xml:id="_9841f">Material is tested at 0.5 wt. % in synthetic 
tap water for 15 minutes at 600 rpm in a Solution Rate 
Tester. Samples are added in a polyethylene glycol 
slurry at a ratio of 3 parts glycol to 1 part gum. </p><p xml:id="_6492f">Viscosities are measured after 15 minutes of 
mixing plus 1 hour rest and after shearing for 1 
minute in a blender and 18 hours rest. Ideally, the 
blended solution should be de-aerated before the 
viscosity is measured, or a defoamer added to the gum 
solution before blending. 3 grams of glycol and 1 
gram of dry gum are weighed into a 10 ml beaker. The 
slurry is mixed with a small spatula by hand for about 
30 seconds. 2.6 grams of the slurry are then placed 
into a 5 cm3 syringe, and the syringe tip cut off to  
 
prevent shearing. 127.4 grams of synthetic tap water 
is weighed into the stainless steel beaker used with 
the Solution Rate Tester. 
<figure><table cols="5"><row><cell>Sample </cell><cell>Brookfield LVT, kg/cm/sec (cP), 3 rpm </cell><cell>% Final </cell><cell>Minutes to react </cell></row><row><cell>(Example #) </cell><cell>1 hour </cell><cell>blended </cell><cell>Viscosity </cell><cell>90% torque </cell></row><row><cell>7</cell><cell>14,600</cell><cell>15,800</cell><cell>92.4</cell><cell>1.83 </cell></row><row><cell>8</cell><cell>6,900</cell><cell>6,650</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>2.16 </cell></row><row><cell>9</cell><cell>7,200</cell><cell>6,900</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>2.30 </cell></row><row><cell>10</cell><cell>7,800</cell><cell>8,000</cell><cell>97.5</cell><cell>9.05 </cell></row><row><cell>11</cell><cell>9,300</cell><cell>9,700</cell><cell>95.9</cell><cell>7.83 </cell></row><row><cell>12</cell><cell>7,250</cell><cell>6,100</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>2.33 </cell></row><row><cell>13a (40 mesh)</cell><cell>10,000</cell><cell>12,000</cell><cell>83.3</cell><cell>33.28 </cell></row><row><cell>   (150 mesh)</cell><cell>9,200</cell><cell>9,600</cell><cell>95.8</cell><cell>11.79 </cell></row><row><cell>13b (40 mesh)</cell><cell>10,000</cell><cell>13,400</cell><cell>74.6</cell><cell>18.64 </cell></row><row><cell>   (150 mesh)</cell><cell>8,400</cell><cell/><cell>100</cell><cell>10.58 </cell></row><row><cell>13c (40 mesh)</cell><cell>8,550</cell><cell>14,000</cell><cell>62.9</cell><cell>23.48 </cell></row><row><cell>   (150 mesh)</cell><cell>8,400</cell><cell>13,000</cell><cell>64.6</cell><cell>10.76 </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_9c3b0">Utility</head><p xml:id="_3aa85">In addition to the uses described above, 
uses for the rapidly hydrating gum of the present 
invention include use as an antiwashout admixture for 
the construction and repair of structures underwater, 
production of a fluid, non-bleeding grout for 
post-tensioned structures, improvement of bond 
between reinforcing steel and concrete, shotcrete, 
lightweight concrete, air entranced concrete, 
oilfield cements, fiber containing concrete, extruded 
concrete  
 
products, precast products as well as general use in 
grouts. Concentrations of the gum required for 
adequate functionality vary with the application. </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>