<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">10691794</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">GB</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">9105762</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">GB9105762A</idno></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C09C1/00F</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C09C1/24P</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C09C3/06</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C09D5/08B2</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M01P4/20</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M01P4/61</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M01P4/84</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M01P6/90</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302109</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302109A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="references-cited"><list type="citations"><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">DE</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">2245959</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">DE2245959A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0097116</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0097116A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0450805</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0450805A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">AP</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">63070503</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">JP63070503A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="srep-phase">SEA</idno><biblStruct subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">SU</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">1084281</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A1</classCode></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">SU1084281A1</idno></monogr></biblStruct><idno type="category">A</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="npl-citation">DATABASE WPIL Section Ch, Week 8447, Derwent Publications Ltd., London, GB; Class E37, AN 84-293763 &amp; SU-A-1 084 281 (TRETYAK) 7 April 1984</idno></item><item type="citation"><idno type="npl-citation">DATABASE WPIL Section Ch, Week 8819, Derwent Publications Ltd., London, GB; Class L03, AN 88-128680 &amp; JP-A-63 070 503 (TDK CORP.) 30 March 1988</idno></item></list></item><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>CARTHEY NICHOLAS ANDREW</persName><residence><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>WHITE KEITH WILLIAM PETER</persName><residence><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>CARTHEY, NICHOLAS ANDREW</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>WHITE, KEITH WILLIAM PETER</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>CARTHEY, NICHOLAS ANDREW</persName><residence><address><addrLine>2 Honor Close</addrLine><settlement>Kidlington, Oxon OX5 2XL</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>WHITE, KEITH WILLIAM PETER</persName><residence><address><addrLine>2 Honor Close</addrLine><settlement>Kidlington, Oxon OX5 2XL</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>COOKSON LAMINOX LTD</name><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>COOKSON LAMINOX LIMITED</name></item><item type="original"><name>Cookson Laminox Limited</name><address><addrLine>Millhill, North West Industrial Estate</addrLine><settlement>Peterlee, County Durham SR8 2HR</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>AT</country><country>BE</country><country>CH</country><country>DE</country><country>DK</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country><country>LI</country><country>NL</country><country>SE</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   1/00        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   1/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   1/22        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   1/24        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   3/06        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09C   3/06        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09D   5/08        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C09D   5/08        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Verfahren zur Behandlung von lamellaren oder plättchenförmigen Materialien.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Method for the treatment of lamellar or plate-like materials.</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Procédé de traitement de matériaux lamellaires ou en plaquettes.</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505086</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A2</classCode><date>19920923</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505086A2</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front><div type="abstract" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_b3594">A method for the treatment of a lamellar or flaky 
pigment or extender which comprises forming a zinc 
phosphate coating on the surface of the particles of 
the material by the steps of 
a) coating the particles of the material with 
zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide by contacting 
the material with a solution of a zinc salt 
in sodium or potassium hydroxide, the 
solution having a pH of 11 or above, at a 
temperature in the range of from 50° to 
100°C, whereby a deposit of zinc oxide or 
zinc hydroxide is formed on the surface of 
the particles; and b) converting the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
to zinc phosphate by treatment of the zinc 
oxide or zinc hydroxide coated material with 
an acidic phosphate solution, or phosphoric 
acid. </p></div></front><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_21fe5">A method for the treatment of a lamellar or 
flaky pigment or extender which comprises forming a 
zinc phosphate coating on the surface of the 
particles of the material by the steps of coating the 
particles of the material with zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide and converting the zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide to zinc phosphate by treatment of the zinc 
oxide or zinc hydroxide coated material with an 
acidic phosphate solution, or phosphoric acid, 
characterised in that the zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide is formed by contacting the material with a 
solution of a zinc salt in sodium or potassium 
hydroxide, the solution having a pH of 11 or above, 
at a temperature in the range of from 50° to 
100°C, whereby a deposit of zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide is formed on the surface of the particles. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_170c6">A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the 
zinc salt is zinc phosphate, zinc carbonate or zinc 
sulphate. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7a1a3">A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 
wherein the alkaline solution of the zinc salt is 
contacted at ambient temperature with the particles 
of the material and the temperature raised to 50° 
to 100°C. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b2d6d">A method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide is converted to zinc phosphate by treatment 
of the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide coated material 
with an alkali metal dihydrogen phosphate solution 
having a pH of above 3. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_3eaf6">A method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the reaction in step (b) is 
effected by stirring the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
coated material with the acidic phosphate solution. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4028c">A method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 
4 wherein the reaction in step (b) is effected by 
slurrying the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide coated 
material in water and adding the acidic phosphate 
solution dropwise thereto until the pH reaches 7. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8fbf6">A method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the surface of the particles 
of the material are pretreated prior to step (a) to 
form iron phosphate on the surface thereof. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4a30d">A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the 
pretreatment is carried out by heating a slurry of 
the material in 0.5 to 2% phosphoric acid. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6d45f">A method as claimed in any one of the 
preceding claims wherein the material which is 
treated is natural or synthetic micaceous iron oxide. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a9948">A corrosion inhibiting paint composition 
which comprises at least one flaky or lamellar 
pigment or extender the corrosion inhibiting 
properties of which have been improved by the 
formation of an zinc phosphate coating on the surface 
of the particles thereof by a method as claimed in 
claim 1. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_94fdc">A corrosion inhibiting paint composition as 
claimed in claim 10 wherein the material has been 
treated by a method as claimed in any one of claims 2 
to 9. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_d8aa9">The present invention relates to a method for the 
treatment of lamellar or flaky materials and, in 
particular, to a method for the preparation of a 
synthetic micaceous iron oxide product which has an 
improved performance in relation to its corrosion 
inhibition properties. </p><p xml:id="_3e873">Micaceous iron oxide (MI0) consists of Fe₂O₃ 
with a flake-like particle structure. It is employed 
as a pigment for protective paints in a range of 
binders e.g. alkyds, vinyls, epoxies and urethanes. 
Micaceous iron oxide paints are used to protect many 
types of steel structures including bridges, storage 
tanks, electricity-pylons and railway gantries. </p><p xml:id="_f7bbe">The protective action (known as the barrier 
effect) is due to the alignment of pigment platelets 
within the paint film, forming tightly packed layers 
lying roughly parallel to the substrate. The 
overlapping particles, encapsulated in binder solids, 
act as a barrier against permeation of corrosive ions 
and shield the binder from UV degradation. </p><p xml:id="_58f81">Since the early 1900s, micaceous iron oxide 
pigment has been obtained from iron ore deposits 
located in various parts of the world. The chemical 
and physical characteristics, as with other natural 
mineral oxides, depend very much on the constitution 
of the source material and from where it is 
obtained. Variations in the morphology of natural 
micaceous iron oxide pigments, (ranging from lamellar 
to granular) affect the protective properties 
considerably. Therefore great care is needed in 
selecting pigments of suitable quality for long-term 
durability. </p><p xml:id="_a44f9">Synthetic micaceous iron oxide may be made by,  
 
for example, a series of chemical reactions which 
involve a first stage chlorination of metallic iron 
to produce ferric chloride, a second stage 
complexation of the ferric chloride with sodium 
chloride to form NaFeCl₄, and a third stage 
oxidation of this complex to form lamellar iron oxide. </p><p xml:id="_711d7">A synthetic micaceous iron oxide having a 
particle size in the range of from 5 to 75 
micrometres, with a 3 to 4% retention on a 63 
micrometre sieve is known as LAMINOX-S. A synthetic 
micaceous iron oxide having a particle size range 
below 20 micrometres, and a lamellar thickness of 2 
to 4 micrometres is known as LAMINOX-F. (LAMINOX is 
a Registered Trade). </p><p xml:id="_090ed">DE-A-1288714 discloses zinc phosphate coated 
chrome yellow prepared by a method in which a 
suspension of zinc oxide at ambient temperature is 
gradually transformed into zinc phosphate by the 
addition of phosphoric acid to pH7. </p><p xml:id="_30c5d">GB-A-1578357 discloses zinc phosphate coated 
chromium dioxide particles which are prepared by 
precipitating zinc hydroxide onto dispersed chromium 
dioxide particles by adding to the dispersion a 
water-soluble zinc salt and an alkaline hydroxide or 
ammonia in an amount such that the pH is from 5 to 7, 
treating the coated particles with phosphoric acid, 
and thereafter thermally treating the product at a 
temperature of from 100° to 350°C. </p><p xml:id="_b6f1f">We have now developed a method for the treatment 
of lamellar or flaky pigments or extenders which 
serves to enhance their anti-corrosive action by 
providing a thin layer of zinc phosphate on the 
surface of the particles of the material, thus 
combining both barrier and chemically inhibitive 
properties. </p><p xml:id="_b0daf">Accordingly the present invention provides a  
 
method for the treatment of a lamellar or flaky 
pigment or extender which comprises forming a zinc 
phosphate coating on the surface of the particles of 
the material by the steps of 
a) coating the particles of the material with 
zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide by contacting 
the material with a solution of a zinc salt 
in sodium or potassium hydroxide, the 
solution having a pH of 11 or above, at a 
temperature in the range of from 50° to 
100°C, whereby a deposit of zinc oxide or 
zinc hydroxide is formed on the surface of 
the particles; and b) converting the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
to zinc phosphate by treatment of the zinc 
oxide or zinc hydroxide coated material with 
an acidic phosphate solution, or phosphoric 
acid. </p><p xml:id="_4af7f">Examples of materials which may be treated in 
accordance with the invention are natural or 
synthetic micaceous iron oxide, or the lamellar forms 
of alumina, alumina hydrate, zinc oxide, aluminium 
silicate (mica), magnesium silicate (talc), sodium 
silicate, magnesium alumina silicate, huntite 
(Mg₃Ca(C0₃)₄), hydromagnesite 
(Mg₄(C0₃)(OH)₂.3H₂0), or the flaky forms of 
alumina, zinc and glass. Natural or synthetic 
micaceous iron oxide are the preferred materials for 
treatment in accordance with the invention. </p><p xml:id="_9cb3e">In carrying out the method of the invention the 
treatment in step (a) is effected by contacting the 
material with an alkaline solution of zinc carbonate, 
zinc sulphate or zinc phosphate, with zinc phosphate 
being particularly preferred. The pH of the solution 
is 11 or above, more preferably 13 or above. The 
morphology of the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide  
 
deposit is influenced by the particular salt which is 
used. The alkaline solution comprises a solution of 
the chosen zinc salt in sodium or potassium 
hydroxide. The concentration of the sodium or 
potassium hydroxide will preferably be about 1M, but 
any concentration capable of dissolving a significant 
amount of the zinc salt may be used. The maximum 
zinc concentration corresponds to a saturated 
solution of the zinc salt. </p><p xml:id="_7eef0">The alkaline solution of the zinc salt is 
preferably contacted at ambient temperature with the 
lamellar or flaky pigment or extender and the 
temperature of the solution raised to a temperature 
in the range of 50° to 100°C, preferably to a 
temperature of about 75°C. Alternatively, the 
lamellar or flaky pigment or extender may be added to 
an alkaline solution of the zinc salt which is 
maintained at a temperature in the range of 50° to 
100°C. A deposit of zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
is gradually formed on the surface of the material. 
Treatment is generally complete after about 30 
minutes. The product from this stage is 
filtered and may, if desired, be washed and dried 
prior to further treatment in step (b). The filtered 
product is, however, preferably kept moist as the 
particles may adhere and form a hard mass on drying. </p><p xml:id="_1390f">The temperatures specified are necessary in order 
to decompose the hydroxy-zincate complex which is 
formed at ambient temperature in solution and 
precipitate zinc (hydr)oxide, for example: 
Zn₃(PO₄)₂ + 12NaOH → 3Zn(OH)₄2⁻ + 2PO₄³⁻ + 12Na⁺</p><p xml:id="_f36a1">In step (b) of the present invention the zinc  
 
oxide or zinc hydroxide layer is transformed into 
zinc phosphate tetrahydrate either partially or 
completely, as desired. In carrying out stage (b) 
the material coated with zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
is contacted with an acidic phosphate solution at 
ambient temperature. The pH of the solution is 
generally maintained above pH 3. The phosphate 
solution may be a solution of sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate, or another alkali metal hydrogen 
phosphate, or a mixture of the salt with phosphoric 
acid, or phosphoric acid, or a solution of zinc 
phosphate in phosphoric acid. The reaction in this 
stage is complete after about 30 minutes and the 
product coated with zinc phosphate tetrahydrate is 
filtered, washed and dried to provide the desired 
material with a coating of zinc phosphate dihydrate. </p><p xml:id="_f5b0b">Alternatively, the product from step (a) may be 
slurried with water and the acidic phosphate solution 
added dropwise thereto so that the zinc oxide or zinc 
hydroxide is neutralised, the reaction being complete 
when the pH of the solution reaches pH 7. </p><p xml:id="_a468f">A pretreatment step prior to step (a) of the 
process may be desirable in order to provide sites on 
the particles of the lamellar or flaky material for 
the zinc phosphate to bind to, or to key, or roughen 
the surface of the particles. The pretreatment step 
will depend upon the material which is to be 
treated. Micaceous iron oxide may be treated with 
phosphoric acid in order to form an iron phosphate 
layer on the surface, whilst glass would generally 
require a pretreatment with sodium hydroxide or 
hydrofluoric acid. Alternatively, micaceous iron 
oxide may be treated in accordance with the method as 
described in our co-pending Application No. (BWT 
Reference 36303/100) to form an iron phosphate layer 
on the surface of the particles.  </p><p xml:id="_b28ae">The process of the present invention may be used 
for the treatment of natural or synthetic micaceous 
iron oxide, as well as for the treatment of other 
lamellar or flaky pigments or extenders. </p><p xml:id="_e7c50">The present invention also includes within its 
scope a corrosion inhibiting paint composition which 
comprises at least one flaky or lamellar pigment or 
extender the corrosion inhibiting properties of which 
have been improved by the formation of a zinc 
phosphate coating on the surface of the particles 
thereof by the steps of 
a) coating the particles of the material with 
zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide by contacting 
the material with a solution of a zinc salt 
in sodium or potassium hydroxide, the 
solution having a pH of 11 or above, at a 
temperature in the range of from 50° to 
100°C, whereby a deposit of zinc oxide or 
zinc hydroxide is formed on the surface of 
the particles; and b) converting the zinc oxide or zinc hydroxide 
to zinc phosphate by treatment of the zinc 
oxide or zinc hydroxide coated material with 
an acidic phosphate solution. </p><p xml:id="_8c7de">The present invention will be further described 
with reference to the following non-limiting Example: </p><head xml:id="_574d8">Example 1</head><p xml:id="_6a8d1">6g of LAMINOX-F were stirred with 150ml of a 
solution of 1M sodium hydroxide containing 2g of zinc 
phosphate tetrahydrate (pH about 13) for 30 minutes 
at 75°C, after which time a zinc oxide coating was 
formed on the particles. The product was filtered, 
washed and dried at 100°C, and stirred for 10 
minutes with a solution containing 2.5g of sodium  
 
dihydrogen phosphate in 100ml of water at ambient 
temperature, after which time the zinc oxide layer 
was converted at least partially to zinc phosphate 
tetrahydrate. The product was washed, and dried at 
150°C, converting the zinc phosphate tetrahydrate 
into zinc phosphate dihydrate. </p><head xml:id="_2b506">Example 2</head><p xml:id="_1d399">36g of LAMINOX-F coated with iron phosphate (10% 
by weight) was heated for 1 hour at 75°C in 
900 cm³ of 1 M sodium hydroxide containing 12g of 
dissolved zinc phosphate tetrahydrate and then washed 
by decantation with water. The wet material was 
suspended in 300 ml of water and the pH (initially 
11) was adjusted to 9 with 100ml sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate solution (1.6g of the dihydrate per 
100ml). The mixture was washed by decantation and 
dried at 120°C to yield 35.6g of LAMINOX-F coated 
with a mixture of zinc oxide and zinc phosphate 
tetrahydrate. (The apparent weight loss of the final 
product is due to dissolution of iron phosphate from 
the starting material). </p><head xml:id="_ffb9f">Example 3</head><p xml:id="_c063a">504.0g of sodium hydroxide were dissolved in 
12.6dm³ of water and 168.0g of zinc phosphate 
tetrahydrate were added with stirring. After 30 
minutes, the zinc phosphate had dissolved and 2kg of 
pre-phosphated Laminox F (10% iron phosphate) were 
added and the suspension was heated to 75°C and 
maintained at that temperature for 2 hours. The 
suspension was allowed to settle. The settled 
product was washed by decantation and then by vacuum 
filtration. It was found that a brownish-red, very  
 
fine precipitate was produced on diluting the coating 
solution, due to re-precipitation of dissolved iron 
phosphate. This was largely removed in the washing 
process. </p><p xml:id="_d37c0">The product from the first stage was micaceous 
iron oxide coated (after drying at 120°C) with 
zinc oxide (3.4%). In a separate experiment, the 
undried product was treated with an acidic zinc 
phosphate solution (at room temperature) in the 
following way. </p><p xml:id="_6a35b">115g of basic zinc carbonate (equivalent 68% ZnO) 
were dissolved in 4.6dm³ of water containing 
161cm³ H₃PO₄ and the coated micaceous iron 
oxide from the first stage was added with sitrring. 
After 1/2 hour, the mixture was vacuum-filtered, 
washed and dried at 120°C overnight, to give 
micaceous iron oxide coated with 8% zinc 
orthophosphate dihydrate. </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>