<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">10692007</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">GB</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">9106086</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910322</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">GB9106086A</idno></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C03C3/118</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C03C3/115</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">H01L31/048</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C03C3/095</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92301914</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920305</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92301914A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>SHORROCK PETER</persName><residence><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>YALE BRIAN</persName><residence><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>SHORROCK, PETER</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>YALE, BRIAN</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>SHORROCK, PETER</persName><residence><address><addrLine>19 Ash Grove, Standish</addrLine><settlement>Wigan, Lancashire WN6 0D2</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>YALE, BRIAN</persName><residence><address><addrLine>18 Claremont Drive</addrLine><settlement>Ormskirk, Lancashire L39 4SP</settlement><country type="national">GB</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>PILKINGTON PLC</name><address><country type="national">GB</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>PILKINGTON PLC</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>BE</country><country>DE</country><country>ES</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country><country>NL</country><country>SE</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">C03C   3/118       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  31/048       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C03C   3/095       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C03C   3/076       20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  31/048       20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C03C   3/108       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C03C   3/115       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Borosilicatglaszusammensetzung</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Borosilicate glass composition</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Composition de verre de borosilicate</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505061</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19961106</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505061B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_23221">Borosilikatglaszusammensetzung, dadurch gekennzeichnet, 
daß die Glaszusammensetzung im wesentlichen aus den 
folgenden Komponenten besteht: 
Si0257 - 77 Mol-%, Al2O30 - 8,5 Mol-%, B2O34,6 - 23,0 Mol-%,   
wobei die Gesamtmenge an 
SiO2 + Al2O3 + B2O3 zwischen 
81 und 91 Mol-% liegt, 
Li2O0 - 1,5 Mol-%,   Na2O 2 - 7,5 Mol-%,  K2O2 - 7,5 Mol-%,  
wobei die Gesamtmenge an 
Li2O + Na2O + K2O zwischen 
7,6 und 10,6 Mol-% liegt, 
CeO20,7 - 2,0 Mol-%, Sb2O30 - 0,3 Mol-%, As2O30 - 0,3 Mol-%, TiO20 - 2,0 Mol-%, F20 - 2,0 Mol-%,  
sowie eine oder mehrere der Verbindungen MgO, CaO, SrO,  
 
BaO, ZnO und PbO in einer Gesamtmenge zwischen 0 und 7 
Mol-%; 
und daß die Glaszusammensetzung einen linearen Ausdehnungskoeffizienten 
im Bereich von 64,0 - 70,0 x 10-7/°C 
besitzt. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1eba1">Glaszusammensetzung nach Anspruch 1, bei welcher die 
Mengen an SiO2, Al2O3 und B2O3 in die folgenden Bereiche 
fallen: 
SiO265 - 70 Mol-%, Al2O30 - 2 Mol-%, B2O38 - 22 Mol-%. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_60075">Glaszusammensetzung nach Anspruch 1 oder 2, bei welcher 
die Menge an MgO zwischen 0 und 5 Mol-% beträgt. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4120f">Glaszusammensetzung nach Anspruch 1, 2 oder 3, bei 
welcher die Menge an CaO zwischen 0 und 3,5 Mol-% beträgt. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a2436">Glaszusammensetzung nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, 
bei welcher die Menge an SrO zwischen 0 und 2 Mol-% 
beträgt. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_bfe46">Glaszusammensetzung nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, 
bei welcher die Menge an BaO zwischen 0 und 2 Mol-% 
beträgt. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_fd54a">Glaszusammensetzung nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, 
bei welcher die Menge an ZnO zwischen 0 und 2,5  
 
Mol-% beträgt. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2aeb8">Glaszusammensetzung nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, 
bei welcher die Menge an PbO zwischen 0 und 7 Mol-% 
beträgt. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_33b8c">Glaszusammensetzung nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, 
bei welcher die Gesamtmenge an MgO + CaO + SrO + 
BaO + ZnO + PbO zwischen 0 und 3,5 Mol-% beträgt. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_011c8">Schutzabdeckung für eine Galliumarsenid-Solarzelle, 
wobei die Abdeckung aus einem Borosilikatglas gemäß 
einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche hergestellt ist. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a9348">A borosilicate glass composition characterised in that the 
glass composition consists essentially of the following 
components:- 
Si0257 - 77 mol%, Al2030 - 8.5 mol%, B2034.6 - 23.0 mol%,  
the total amount of Si02 + Al203 + B203 being from 
81 to 91 mol%, 
Li200 - 1.5 mol%, Na202 - 7.5 mol%, K202 - 7.5 mol%,  
the total amount of Li20 + Na20 + K20 being from 7.6 to 
10.6 mol%, 
Ce020.7 - 2.0 mol%, Sb2030 - 0.3 mol%, As2030 - 0.3 mol%, Ti020 - 2.0 mol%, F20 - 2.0 mol%,  
and one or more of MgO, CaO, SrO, BaO, ZnO and PbO, in a total 
amount of from 0 to 7 mol%; 
and in that the glass composition exhibits a coefficient of 
linear expansion within the range 64.0 - 70.0 x 10-7/deg.C. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c9aaa">A glass composition according to claim 1, wherein the 
amounts of Si02, Al203 and B203 fall in the 
following ranges:- 
Si0265 - 70 mol%, Al2030 - 2 mol%, B2038 - 22 mol%. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5ce18">A glass composition according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the 
amount of MgO is from 0 to 5 mol%. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6d76a">A glass composition according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein 
the amount of CaO is from 0 to 3.5 mol%. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9bc93">A glass composition according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the amount of SrO is from 0 to 2 mol%. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_79aeb">A glass composition according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the amount of BaO is from 0 to 2 mol%. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1bd6a">A glass composition according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the amount of ZnO is from 0 to 2.5 mol%. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_fec19">A glass composition according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the amount of PbO is from 0 to 7 mol%. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_caf00">A glass composition according to any one of the preceding 
claims, wherein the sum total of MgO + CaO + SrO + BaO + ZnO + 
PbO is from 0 to 3.5 mol%. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9b907">A protective cover for a gallium arsenide solar cell, the 
said cover being made from a borosilicate glass as claimed in 
any one of the preceding claims. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_eeaa1">Composition de verre de borosilicate caractérisée en ce que la 
composition de verre consiste essentiellement en les composants 
suivants : 
SiO257 - 77 % en moles Al2O30 - 8,5 % en moles B2O34,6 - 23,0 % en moles  
la quantité totale de SiO2 + Al2O3 + B2O3 étant de 81 à 91 % en 
moles, 
Li2O0 - 1,5 % en moles Na2O2 - 7,5 % en moles K2O2 - 7,5 % en moles  
la quantité totale de Li2O + Na2O + K2O étant de 7,6 à 10,6 % en 
moles, 
CeO20,7 - 2,0 % en moles Sb2O30 - 0,3 % en moles As2O30 - 0,3 % en moles TiO20 - 2,0 % en moles F20 - 2,0 % en moles  
   et un ou plusieurs composants de MgO, CaO, SrO, BaO, ZnO et 
PbO, en une quantité totale de 0 à 7 % en moles;  
 
   et en ce que la composition de verre présente un coefficient de 
dilatation linéaire dans la plage de 64,0 - 70,0 x 10-7/°C. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_41e86">Composition de verre selon la revendication 1, dans laquelle 
les quantités de SiO2, Al2O3 et B2O3 entrent dans les plages suivantes 
: 
SiO265 - 70 % en moles Al2O30 - 2 % en moles B2O38 - 22 % en moles. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e0c73">Composition de verre selon la revendication 1 ou 2, dans laquelle 
la quantité de MgO est de 0 à 5 % en moles. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5643c">Composition de verre selon la revendication 1, 2 ou 3, dans laquelle 
la quantité de CaO est de 0 à 3,5 % en moles. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0bfb2">Composition de verre selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
précédentes, dans laquelle la quantité de SrO est de 0 à 2 % 
en moles. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_01d09">Composition de verre selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
précédentes, dans laquelle la quantité de BaO est de 0 à 2 % 
en moles. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1e073">Composition de verre selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
précédentes, dans laquelle la quantité de ZnO est de 0 à 
2,5 % en moles.  
 </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_f2d0d">Composition de verre selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
précédentes, dans laquelle la quantité de PbO est de 0 à 7 % 
en moles. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_97eb9">Composition de verre selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
précédentes, dans laquelle la quantité totale de MgO + CaO + 
SrO + BaO + ZnO + PbO est de 0 à 3,5 % en moles. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_763a7">Couvercle de protection pour une photopile d'arséniure de gallium, 
ledit couvercle étant fait d'un verre de borosilicate selon 
l'une quelconque des revendications précédentes. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_3b5ff">The present invention relates to borosilicate glass 
compositions. More particularly, the invention relates to 
borosilicate glass compositions which incorporate cerium oxide 
and which are suitable for use as protective covers for solar 
cells, especially solar cells constructed from gallium 
arsenide for use in satellites. </p><p xml:id="_28d8a">US Patent 4 746 634 describes a range of borosilicate 
glass compositions for use in the protection of silicon solar 
cells. They have coefficients of linear expansion in the range 
73.5 - 76.7 x 10-7/deg.C. In our earlier European Patent 
0261885 we describe an improved range of borosilicate glass 
compositions having coefficients of linear expansion which 
match the coefficient of linear expansion of silicon. </p><p xml:id="_f24d2">The need to match the coefficient of linear expansion of 
the glass composition to that of a substrate, e.g. a silicon 
substrate, arises from the need to bond a protective cover 
made from said glass composition directly to the solar cell. </p><p xml:id="_7ae1b">Furthermore, in order to be suitable for use in making 
such protective covers for solar cells, the glass compositions 
must be capable of being produced in the form of thin sheets 
of glass having a thickness of from 50 to 500 microns. </p><p xml:id="_77bb2">A protective cover made from such glass compositions must 
also exhibit the following properties: 
(i) good spectral transmission with at least 80% of 
incident light being transmitted at 400 nm and 85% of 
incident light being transmitted at 450 nm (for a sample 
having a thickness in the range of 50 to 500 microns);  
 (ii) low ultra-violet light transmission i.e. high UV 
absorption at wavelengths below 320 nm, with less than 5% 
incident radiation being transmitted, more preferably 
less than 2% incident radiation being transmitted (for a 
sample having a thickness in the range of 50 to 500 
microns); and (iii) absence of significant discolouration (also known 
as radiation stability) when exposed to solar radiation 
of space which comprises, inter alia, ultra-violet light, 
low energy electrons, protons, X-rays and gamma rays. </p><p xml:id="_d6ada">Solar energy cells constructed from gallium arsenide are 
being developed for use in space satellites. Such cells can 
be glazed with protective covers if made from known glass 
compositions provided that an adhesive layer is used to bond 
the protective cover to the solar cell. However, if it is 
desired to bond the protective cover directly to the solar 
cell, then the glass must have a coefficient of linear 
expansion which is the same as, or very close to, that of the 
material from which the solar cell is made. </p><p xml:id="_0507e">Experiments have shown that for direct bonding to gallium 
arsenide, a coefficient of linear expansion of between 64.0 
and 70.0 x 10-7/deg.C is required. A match of coefficient 
of linear expansion is particularly important for gallium 
arsenide because of its fragility and brittleness. </p><p xml:id="_a2057">It is well known that high stability to space radiation 
can be achieved by the inclusion of cerium oxide in the glass 
composition used to form the protective cover. From about 2 
to 5% by weight cerium oxide, preferably more than 3% by 
weight cerium oxide, is known to have the desired effect for 
protective covers for silicon cells. In order to be able to 
manufacture sheets of glass which are sufficiently thin to be 
suitable for use as protective covers for solar cells, it is  
 
necessary to keep the liquidus temperature of the glass 
composition (in relation to the viscosity of the melt) at a 
low value. The presence of cerium oxide at the preferred 
concentration range of 2 to 5% by weight generally causes the 
liquidus temperature of the glass to be increased above the 
liquidus temperature of the cerium-free base glass 
composition. This is particularly true when the glass 
composition contains a high proportion of the more acidic 
network-forming oxides such as Si02 or B203 or 
Al203. Unfortunately, to prevent the coefficient of 
linear expansion from rising above the desired upper limit of 
70.0 x 10-7/deg.C it is necessary to work with glass 
compositions which contain relatively high concentrations of 
these acidic oxides and this can lead to glass compositions 
which have relatively high, undesirable, liquidus 
temperatures. </p><p xml:id="_e235b">We have found a narrow range of borosilicate glass 
compositions which have the desired radiation stability and 
light transmission, a coefficient of linear expansion within 
the desired range and which also have liquidus temperatures 
which are sufficiently low in relation to the viscosity of the 
melt to make the glass compositions suitable for the 
manufacture of sheets of glass which are sufficiently thin for 
use as protective covers for solar cells made of gallium 
arsenide. </p><p xml:id="_34b48">According to a first aspect of the present invention, 
there is provided a borosilicate glass composition 
characterised in that the glass composition consists 
essentially of the following components:- 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Si02</cell><cell>57 - 77 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Al203</cell><cell>0 - 8.5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>B203</cell><cell>4.6 - 23.0 mol%, </cell></row></table></figure>  
 
the total amount of Si02 + Al203 + B203 being from 
81 to 91 mol%, 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Li20</cell><cell>0 - 1.5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Na20</cell><cell>2 - 7.5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>K20</cell><cell>2 - 7.5 mol%, </cell></row></table></figure> 
the total amount of Li20 + Na20 + K20 being from 7.6 to 
10.6 mol%, 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Ce02</cell><cell>0.7 - 2.0 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Sb203</cell><cell>0 - 0.3 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>As203</cell><cell>0 - 0.3 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Ti02</cell><cell>0 - 2.0 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>F2</cell><cell>0 - 2.0 mol%, </cell></row></table></figure> 
and one or more of MgO, CaO, SrO, BaO, ZnO and PbO, in a total 
amount of from 0 to 7 mol%; 
and in that the glass composition exhibits a coefficient of 
linear expansion within the range 
64.0 - 70.0 x 10-7/deg.C. </p><p xml:id="_09a68">In a particularly preferred group of glass compositions 
in accordance with the invention the amounts of Si02, 
Al203 and B203 fall in the following ranges:- 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Si02</cell><cell>65 - 70 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Al203</cell><cell>0 - 2 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>B203</cell><cell>8 - 22 mol%. </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_6dd6b">Cerium may be introduced as either the oxidised ceric 
form (Ce02 - often referred to as ceric oxide) or as the 
reduced cerous form (Ce203). In the glass both oxide 
forms are often present, regardless of how the cerium is 
added, but the reduced cerous form Ce203 generally 
predominates.  
 
However, because ceric oxide (Ce02) is the most common 
source of cerium, it is common practice to express cerium 
contents as if all the cerium is present as Ce02. </p><p xml:id="_8dc61">Advantageously, the quantities of MgO, CaO, SrO, BaO, 
ZnO, PbO in the glass compositions of the invention fall 
within the following ranges:- 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Mg0</cell><cell>0-5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Ca0</cell><cell>0-3.5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Sr0</cell><cell>0-2 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Ba0</cell><cell>0-2 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Zn0</cell><cell>0-2.5 mol%, </cell></row><row><cell>Pb0</cell><cell>0-7 mol%. </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_8bf3e">The preferred range of the sum total of MgO + CaO + SrO + 
BaO + ZnO + PbO is from 0 to 3.5 mol%. </p><p xml:id="_db49f">According to a further aspect of the invention there is 
provided a protective cover for a gallium arsenide solar cell, 
the cover being made from a borosilicate glass composition 
according to the first aspect of the invention. </p><p xml:id="_19dbf">Typically, the thickness of such protective covers will 
be within the range 50 to 500 microns. The thickness of the 
glass sheet will partly be governed by the composition of the 
glass. For example, some compositions have a colouration 
which is too dark to be suitable for making glass sheet having 
a thickness at the upper region of the quoted thickness range. </p><p xml:id="_7c248">We have found that for producing glass sheet which is 
thinner than about 100 microns the total amount of Ce02 + 
Ti02 (ceria + titania) needs to be high, typically greater 
than 1.5 mol%, to give the required UV absorption. However, 
many such compositions with more than 1.5% Ce02 + Ti02 
will be coloured too darkly to be suitable for the thicker 
glass sheet (ie. having a thickness above about 150 microns).  
 
These high UV absorbing glasses may be bleached to some extent 
by increasing the concentration of antimony oxide to value of 
above 0.3%, but maximum levels of Ce02 + Ti02 are not 
necessary for the thicker covers (i.e. above about 150 microns 
in thickness) and it would therefore also be possible to use 
Ce02 + Ti02 levels below 1.5% in these cases. </p><p xml:id="_a1e11">Bonding techniques that can be used for the glass 
compositions of the present invention are electrostatic bonding, 
teflon bonding and rigid adhesive bonding. </p><p xml:id="_89186">The present invention is illustrated by the following 
Examples. Table 1 shows the compositions in terms of mol 
percentages, whereas Table 2 shows the same compositions as 
Table 1, but the components in Table 2 are shown in weight 
percentages, based on the total weight of the glass composition. </p><p xml:id="_09d7b">The glass compositions in each of the examples exhibited a 
coefficient of linear expansion within the range 
64 to 70 x 10-7/deg.C. </p><p xml:id="_315be">In the following Tables:- 
   CLE represents the coefficient of linear 
expansion of the glass composition measured 
at 20 - 550°C (x10-7/deg.C), 
   Tg represents the glass transition temperature (in°C), and 
   Tw represents the working point (in°C).  
 
</p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>