<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">12748425</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">4648291</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">JP4648291A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">46482/91</idno><imprint><date>19910312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">B01J31/02E2</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">B01J31/02B2B</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C07C255/36</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C07C253/08</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">L01J231/34B2B</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302120</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302120A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>INOUE SHOHEI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>MORI ATSUNORI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>INOUE, SHOHEI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>MORI, ATSUNORI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>INOUE, SHOHEI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>18-5, Chihayacho 4-chome</addrLine><settlement>Toshima-ku, Tokyo 171</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>MORI, ATSUNORI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>3-20, Sendagi 2-chome</addrLine><settlement>Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>SUMITOMO CHEMICAL CO</name><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>SUMITOMO CHEMICAL COMPANY, LIMITED</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>BE</country><country>CH</country><country>DE</country><country>ES</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country><country>LI</country><country>NL</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07C 255/36        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">B01J  31/02        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07C 253/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">B01J  31/02        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07C 253/08        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07C 255/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Katalysator zur asymmetrischen Induktion</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">A catalyst for asymmetric induction</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Catalyseur pour l'induction asymétrique</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505089</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19941214</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505089B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d0197">Katalysator zur asymmetrischen Induktion, umfassend ein Titan(IV)-alkoxid und ein 
Dipeptid-Derivat der Formel [I] 
 
worin R¹ für Isopropyl, Isobutyl, sec-Butyl, tert-Butyl, Methyl, Benzyl oder Phenyl steht, 
R³ für Niederalkoxy, Hydroxy oder Mono- oder Di-niederalkylamino steht, R⁴ für 
Wasserstoff steht, R² für Benzyl, Indol-3-ylmethyl, Isopropyl, Isobutyl oder Phenyl steht, 
R⁵, R⁶, R⁷ und R⁸ gleich oder verschieden sind und jeweils für Wasserstoff, Halogen, 
Niederalkyl oder Niederalkoxy stehen oder R⁵ und R⁶ oder R⁶ und R⁷ oder R⁷ und R⁸ 
zusammen die Gruppe -CH=CH-CH=CH- oder -OCH₂O- bilden und "*" ein asymmetrisches 
Kohlenstoffatom mit einer absoluten (S)- oder (R)-Konfiguration anzeigt. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_93951">Katalysator nach Anspruch 1, worin R⁵ und R⁶ zusammen den Rest 
-CH=CH-CH=CH- bilden und R⁷ und R⁸ beide Wasserstoff sind. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_78686">Katalysator nach Anspruch 2, worin R² für Benzyl, Indol-3-ylmethyl oder Phenyl steht. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b1b59">Katalysator nach Anspruch 2, worin R¹ für Isopropyl, Isobutyl, sec-Butyl, tert-Butyl, 
Methyl oder Benzyl steht und R² für Benzyl oder Indol-3-ylmethyl steht.  
 </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5db08">Katalysator nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, worin beide asymmetrischen 
Kohlenstoffatome die absolute (S)-Konfiguration aufweisen. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a1587">Katalysator nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 4, worin beide asymmetrische Kohlenstoffatome 
die absolute (R)-Konfiguration aufweisen. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_bab3d">Katalysator zur asymmetrischen Induktion, umfassend ein Titan(IV)-alkoxid und ein 
Dipeptid-Derivat der Formel [Ia] 
 
worin R¹ für Isopropyl steht, R² und R⁴ zusammen den Rest -CH₂CH₂CH₂- bilden, R³ für 
eine Ethoxygruppe steht, R⁵ und R⁶ zusammen den Rest -CH=CH-CH=CH- bilden, R⁷ 
und R⁸ beide Wasserstoff sind und "*" ein asymmetrisches Kohlenstoffatom mit einer 
absoluten (S)-Konfiguration anzeigt. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_f2e0b">Katalysator nach einem der vorangehenden Ansprüche, worin das Titan(IV)-alkoxid in 
einem Molverhältnis von 0,5 bis 2 verwendet wird, bezogen auf das Dipeptid-Derivat. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_46e9c">Verwendung eines Katalysators nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 8 zur Herstellung 
eines optisch aktiven Cyanohydrins. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1f8ec">Verwendung nach Anspruch 9 bei der Herstellung eines optisch aktiven Cyanohydrins 
durch Addition von Cyanwasserstoff an einen Aldehyd. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5f116">Verwendung nach Anspruch 10, worin der Aldehyd ein aromatischer Aldehyd ist.  
 </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4771f">Verwendung nach Anspruch 11, worin der Aldehyd Benzaldehyd ist. </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b1184">Verwendung nach Anspruch 11, worin der Aldehyd m-Phenoxybenzaldehyd oder m-Phenoxybenzaldehyd, 
der durch ein oder zwei Halogenatom(e) substituiert ist, ist. </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5dd3f">Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Cyanohydrins, welches die Addition von Cyanwasserstoff 
an einen Aldehyd in Gegenwart eines Katalysators nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 
8 umfaßt. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d9801">A catalyst for asymmetric induction comprising a 
titanium (IV) alkoxide and a dipeptide derivative of formula 
(I) 
 
wherein R¹ is isopropyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, 
methyl, benzyl or phenyl, R³ is lower alkoxy, hydroxyl or mono- or 
di-lower alkylamino, R⁴ is hydrogen, R² is benzyl, indol-3-ylmethyl, 
isopropyl, isobutyl, or phenyl, R⁵, R⁶, R⁷, and R⁸ are 
the same or different and each is hydrogen, halogen, lower 
alkyl or lower alkoxy, or R⁵ and R⁶ or R⁶ and R⁷ or R⁷ and R⁸ 
together form -CH=CH-CH=CH- or -OCH₂O-, and * denotes an 
asymmetric carbon atom having an absolute configuration of S or 
R. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8396a">A catalyst according to claim 1 wherein R⁵ and R⁶ 
together form -CH=CH-CH=CH-, and R⁷ and R⁸ are both hydrogen. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_448b9">A catalyst according to claim 2 wherein R² is 
benzyl, indol-3-ylmethyl or phenyl. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c7ea5">A catalyst according to claim 2 wherein R¹ is 
isopropyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, methyl or benzyl, 
and R² is benzyl or indol-3-ylmethyl. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_29725">A catalyst according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein both asymmetric carbon atoms have the S absolute 
configuration. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7e361">A catalyst according to any one of claims 1 to 4 
wherein both asymmetric carbon atoms have the R absolute 
configuration.  
 </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a0531">A catalyst for asymmetric induction comprising a 
titanium (IV) alkoxide and a dipeptide derivative of formula 
(Ia) 
 
wherein R¹ is isopropyl, R² and R⁴ together form -CH₂CH₂CH₂-, R³ 
is an ethoxy group, R⁵ and R⁶ together form -CH=CH-CH=CH-, R⁷ 
and R⁸ are both hydrogen, and * denotes an asymmetric carbon 
atom having an absolute configuration of S. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_81fd3">A catalyst according to any one of the preceding 
claims wherein the titanium (IV) alkoxide is used in a molar 
ratio of 0.5 to 2 to the dipeptide derivative. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_17442">Use of a catalyst according to any one of claims 1 
to 8 in the preparation of an optically active cyanohydrin. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9d3da">Use according to claim 9 in the preparation of an 
optically active cyanohydrin by an addition of hydrogen cyanide 
to an aldehyde. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0c343">Use according to claim 10 wherein the aldehyde is 
an aromatic aldehyde. </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_09f4b">Use according to claim 11 wherein the aldehyde is 
benzaldehyde. </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b4864">Use according to claim 11 wherein the aldehyde is 
m-phenoxybenzaldehyde or m-phenoxybenzaldehyde substituted by 
one to two halogen atoms. </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9d0d8">A process of producing a cyanohydrin comprising 
adding hydrogen cyanide to an aldehyde in the presence of a 
catalyst according to any one of claims 1 to 8. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d54d0">Catalyseur d'induction asymétrique comprenant un alcoxyde de 
titane (IV) et un dérivé de dipeptide de formule (I): 
 
dans laquelle R¹ est un isopropyle, isobutyle, sec-butyle, tert-butyle, méthyle, 
benzyle ou phényle, R³ est un alcoxy inférieur, hydroxyle ou mono- ou dialkyl-amino 
inférieur, R⁴ est un hydrogène, R² est un benzyle, indol-3-ylméthyle, isopropyle, 
isobutyle, ou phényle, R⁵, R⁶, R⁷ et R⁸ sont identiques ou différents et 
chacun est un hydrogène, halogène, alkyle inférieur ou alcoxy inférieur, ou R⁵ et 
R⁶ ou R⁶ et R⁷ ou R⁷ et R⁸ ensemble forment -CH=CH-CH=CH- ou 
-OCH₂O-, et l'* indique un atome de carbone asymétrique ayant une configuration 
absolue S ou R. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_24581">Catalyseur selon la revendication 1, dans lequel R⁵ et R⁶ forment 
ensemble -CH=CH-CH=CH-, et R⁷ et R⁸ sont tous les deux l'hydrogène. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_af8ed">Catalyseur selon la revendication 2, dans lequel R² est le benzyle, 
l'indol-3-ylméthyle ou le phényle. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a6b51">Catalyseur selon la revendication 2, dans lequel R¹ est un isopropyle, 
isobutyle, sec-butyle, tert-butyle, méthyle ou benzyle, et R² est un benzyle 
ou indol-3-ylméthyle. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_147cc">Catalyseur selon l'une quelconque des revendications précédentes, 
dans lequel les deux atomes de carbone asymétriques ont la configuration absolue 
S. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a49e1">Catalyseur selon l'une quelconque des revendications 1 à 4, dans 
lequel les deux atomes de carbone asymétriques ont la configuration absolue R. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c67b3">Catalyseur d'induction asymétrique comprenant un alcoxyde de 
titane (IV) et un dérivé de dipeptide de formule (Ia):  
 
 
dans laquelle R¹ est un isopropyle, R² et R⁴ forment ensemble -CH₂CH₂CH₂-, 
R³ est un groupe éthoxy, R⁵ et R⁶ forment ensembles -CH=CH-CH=CH-, R⁷ et 
R⁸ sont tous les deux l'hydrogène, et l'* indique un atome de carbone asymétrique 
ayant une configuration absolue S. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7a48c">Catalyseur selon l'une quelconque des revendications précédentes, 
dans lequel on utilise l'alcoxyde de titane (IV) en une proportion molaire de 0,5 à 2 
par rapport au dérivé dipeptide. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c47e8">Utilisation d'un catalyseur selon l'une quelconque des revendications 
1 à 8 pour préparer une cyanohydrine optiquement active. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_18725">Utilisation selon la revendication 9 dans la préparation d'une 
cyanohydrine optiquement active par addition de cyanure d'hydrogène sur un 
aldéhyde. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_bc727">Utilisation selon la revendication 10, dans laquelle l'aldéhyde est 
un aldéhyde aromatique. </p></div><div n="12" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5ed20">Utilisation selon la revendication 11, dans laquelle l'aldéhyde est le 
benzaldéhyde. </p></div><div n="13" type="claim"><p xml:id="_12567">Utilisation selon la revendication 11, dans laquelle l'aldéhyde est le 
m-phénoxybenzaldéhyde ou le m-phénoxybenzaldéhyde substitué par un ou deux 
atomes d'halogène. </p></div><div n="14" type="claim"><p xml:id="_76d3a">Procédé de production d'une cyanohydrine comprenant d'ajouter du 
cyanure d'hydrogène à un aldéhyde en présence d'un catalyseur selon l'une quelconque 
des revendications 1 à 8. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_def12">The present invention relates to 
a catalyst for asymmetric induction. More 
particularly, it relates to a catalyst useful for 
preparation of optically active cyanohydrins by 
addition of hydrogen cyanide to aldehydes. </p><p xml:id="_5267b">The present inventors have previously 
reported that (R)-cyanohydrin isomers are obtained 
by asymmetric addition reaction of hydrogen 
cyanide to aldehydes with cyclo-[(S)-phenylalanyl-(S)-histidyl] 
[Inoue et al., J. Chem. Soc., 
Chem. Comm., 229 (1981): Bull, Chem. Soc. Jpn., 
59, 893 (1986)]. For example, (R)-mandelonitrile 
is obtained at a relatively high purity and in a 
high yield by allowing benzaldehyde to react with 
hydrogen cyanide in the presence of cyclo-[(S)-phenylalanyl-(S)-histidyl)]. </p><p xml:id="_f76a7">The present inventors have found a 
further excellent catalyst for asymmetric 
induction in the course of research on 
asymmetric induction catalyzed by dipeptide 
derivatives. </p><p xml:id="_362c2">The present invention 
provides a catalyst for asymmetric induction 
comprising a titanium (IV) alkoxide and a dipeptide derivative of 
formula (I) 
</p><p xml:id="_7417e">wherein R¹ represents isopropyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, 
methyl, benzyl or phenyl, R² represents benzyl, indol-3-ylmethyl, 
isopropyl, isobutyl or phenyl, R³ represents lower 
alkoxy (e.g. C₁₋₄ alkoxy such as methoxy or ethoxy), hydroxyl, 
or mono- or di-lower alkylamino (e.g. C₁₋₄ alkylamino such as 
methylamino or ethylamino), R⁴ represents hydrogen, R⁵, R⁶, R⁷ 
and R⁸ are the same or different and each represents hydrogen, 
halogen (e.g. fluorine, chlorine or bromine), lower alkyl (e.g. 
C₁₋₄ alkyl such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, 
isobutyl, sec-butyl or tert-butyl) or lower alkoxy (e.g. C₁₋₄ 
alkoxy such as methoxy or ethoxy), or R⁵ and R⁶, R⁶ and R⁷ or R⁷ 
and R⁸ are bonded together at their terminals to form 
-CH=CH-CH=CH- or OCH₂O, and * denotes an absolute configuration 
of S or R. </p><p xml:id="_a100c">The invention further provides the use of the above 
catalyst in the preparation of an optically active cyanohydrin, 
and a process for preparing an optically active cyanohydrin by 
addition of hydrogen cyanide to an aldehyde in the presence of 
the above catalyst. </p><p xml:id="_84ae8">Several embodiments of the dipeptide derivatives 
represented by the formula [I] are given below: 
</p><p xml:id="_e7a10">wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴ and * are as defined above. </p><p xml:id="_89d65">In the dipeptide derivative represented by the 
formula [I] used for the catalyst of the present invention, as 
the R¹ substituent, isopropyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, 
methyl and benzyl are preferred. As the R² substituent, benzyl 
and indol-3-ylmethyl are preferred. As the R³ substituent, 
lower alkoxy is preferred. Not less than 2 substituents out of 
R⁵, R⁶, R⁷ and R⁸ are preferably hydrogen. </p><p xml:id="_906fd">The dipeptide derivative of formula [I] can be 
prepared, for example, by condensation of a salicyl aldehyde 
derivative such as 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde and dipeptides as 
shown in the following scheme: 
</p><p xml:id="_869e0">wherein R¹, R², R³, R⁴, R⁵, R⁶, R⁷, R⁸ and * are 
the same as those defined above. </p><p xml:id="_b20e0">The dipeptides used for the condensation 
with the salicyl aldehyde derivative such as 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde 
can be prepared according 
to any of the conventional methods for synthesizing 
peptides. For example, by the condensation of N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-valine, 
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-leucine, 
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-isoleucine, 
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-tert-leucine, N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-alanine, 
N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-phenylalanine 
or the corresponding R-isomers 
thereof with (S)-phenylalanine alkyl esters or 
amides such as lower alkyl esters having 1 - 4 carbon 
atoms (e.g. a methyl ester or an ethyl ester 
or mono- or di-lower alkylamides (e.g. 
butylamide or diethylamide), or (S)-tryptophan 
alkyl esters or amides or R-isomers 
thereof, in the presence of isobutyl chloroformate 
by the mixed acid anhydride method, the corresponding 
dipeptide derivatives such as N-benzyloxycarbonyl-(S)-valyl-(S)-phenylalanine 
methyl 
ester can be obtained. The dipeptide derivatives 
are then subjected to hydrogenolysis in the 
presence of palladium/carbon and condensation with 
the salicyl aldehyde derivative such as 2-hydroxy-1-naphthaldehyde. </p><p xml:id="_e3cc0">The titanium (IV) alkoxides used as a 
component of the catalyst are suitably lower alkoxides (e.g.  
 
C₁₋₄ alkoxides such as ethoxide, isopropoxide, propoxide and 
butoxide) of titanium (IV). Examples of the titanium (IV) 
alkoxide are titanium (IV) tetraethoxide, titanium (IV) 
tetraisopropoxide, titanium (IV) tetrapropoxide and titanium 
(IV) tetrabutoxide. The titanium alkoxides are usually used in 
a molar ratio of 0.5 - 2, preferably 1 - 2 to the compound 
represented by the formula [I]. </p><p xml:id="_8094b">It is presumed that the catalyst of the present 
invention is a complex consisting of the dipeptide derivative 
and the titanium (IV) alkoxide, although the stereochemistry of 
the catalyst has not yet been established. </p><p xml:id="_de8c8">The catalyst is very useful as a catalyst for preparing 
optically active cyanohydrins by addition of hydrogen cyanide 
to an aldehyde. For example, when the dipeptide derivative 
Nap-S-Val-S-Phe-OMe, which is the compound represented by 
formula [II] wherein R¹ is isopropyl, R² is benzyl, R³ is 
methoxy, R⁴ is hydrogen and all of the absolute configurations 
are S, and titanium (IV) tetraethoxide are used as the catalyst 
of the present invention, (R)-mandelonitrile is produced by 
reaction of benzaldehyde and hydrogen cyanide in the presence 
of the catalyst. On the other hand, when the dipeptide 
derivative Nap-R-Val-R-Phe-OMe, which is the compound 
represented by formula [II] wherein R¹ is isopropyl, R² is 
benzyl, R₃ is methoxy, R⁴ is hydrogen and all of the absolute 
configurations are R, and titanium (IV) tetraethoxide are used, 
(S)-mandelonitrile is produced. Thus, the catalyst of the 
present invention can be used as a catalyst for preparing a  
 
variety of optically active cyanohydrins which are 
useful as intermediates in the preparation of pharmaceuticals, 
agrochemicals such as pyrethroid insecticides, 
perfumes or the like. </p><p xml:id="_23c72">In the catalyst of the present invention, 
each amino acid component of the dipeptide 
derivative represented by the formula [I] 
preferably has the same configuration; in other 
words, both absolute configurations relating to 
the carbon atoms represented by * are S- or R-isomers 
from the viewpoint of optical yield of 
the reaction. </p><p xml:id="_db3ad">Substrate compounds on which the catalyst 
of the present invention works are, in addition to 
the aforementioned benzaldehyde, aromatic aldehydes 
such as p-methylbenzaldehyde, m-methoxybenzaldehyde, 
naphthaldehyde, m-phenoxybenzaldehyde optionally 
substituted by one to two halogen atoms (e.g., a 
fluorine atom, a chlorine atom, a bromine atom) and 
furfural, aliphatic aldehydes such as 
heptanal, and alicyclic aldehydes such as 
cyclohexanecarboaldehyde. </p><p xml:id="_ae093">When the catalyst of the present 
invention is used for the asymmetric synthesis of 
optically active cyanohydrins, an amount of 1 - 
15% by mole to the aldehyde is enough. The 
synthesis is usually conducted by allowing an 
aldehyde to react with hydrogen cyanide whose 
amount is 1 - 5 moles to the aldehyde, in an inert 
solvent such as toluene, methylene chloride, ethyl 
ether or isopropyl ether, at a temperature 
from -80°C to room temperature, 
preferably from -50°C to room temperature. After  
 
termination of the reaction, the reaction mixture 
is poured into a dilute hydrochloric acid-methanol 
solution. After excess hydrogen cyanide is removed 
under reduced pressure, the solution is subjected 
to the usual after-treatments to give a desired 
optically active cyanohydrin. </p><head xml:id="_86b75">[ Examples ]</head><p xml:id="_5a16a">The present invention is further 
explained with reference to Examples. </p><head xml:id="_cf94a">Example 1</head><p xml:id="_dda5f">Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, which is the 
compound represented by the formula [II]; R¹, an 
isopropyl group; R², an indol-3-ylmethyl group; R³, 
a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of the 
absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
(0.05 mmole) was suspended in 3 ml of toluene at 
room temperature under an argon atmosphere, and 
titanium (IV) tetraethoxide (0.05 mmole) was added 
to the suspension under the same atmosphere as 
above. After being stirred for 30 minutes, the 
reaction mixture was cooled to -78°C, and 
benzaldehyde (0.5 mmole) and hydrogen cyanide 
(0.75 mmole) were added. The mixture was further 
stirred at -40°C for 3 hours, and the reaction 
mixture was poured into a dilute hydrochloric acid-methanol 
solution. The excessive amount of 
hydrogen cyanide was removed under reduced pressure, 
and the mandelonitrile was recovered from the 
organic layer in 85% yield. The product contained 
the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 94 : 6. The 
yield was calculated from integrating intensities 
of the ¹H-NMR spectrum, and the ratio of the R-and 
S-isomers was determined by the integrating 
intensities of the signals corresponding to the  
 
methyne protons on the ¹H-NMR spectrum after the 
product was converted to the corresponding menthyl 
carbonate according to the usual method. [Tanaka 
et al., J. Org. Chem., 55, 181 (1990); Mori et al., 
Chem. Lett., 1989, 2119]. </p><head xml:id="_d0be6">Example 2</head><p xml:id="_0e53b">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that titanium (IV) 
tetraisopropoxide (0.05 mmole) was used in place of 
the titanium (IV) tetraethoxide (0.05 mmole) and 
that the stirring was continued at -20°C for 
2.5 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 96%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 89 : 11. </p><head xml:id="_7d1f5">Example 3</head><p xml:id="_ada6f">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Phe-OMe 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C for 4 
hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 85%. The product contained 
the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 93 : 7. </p><head xml:id="_b6551">Example 4</head><p xml:id="_4259c">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 3 except that Nap-R-Val-R-Phe-OMe 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Phe-OMe, 
to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 85%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 9 : 
91. </p><head xml:id="_0df6b">Example 5</head><p xml:id="_5e0c3">The procedure was conducted in the same  
 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-R-Val-S-Phe-OMe 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe 
and that the stirring was continued at -20°C for 4 
hours in place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 84%. The product contained 
the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 31 : 69. </p><head xml:id="_7e8e1">Example 6</head><p xml:id="_b5439">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that 2-naphthaldehyde 
was used in place of the benzaldenyde, 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C for 
7.5 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
α-hydroxy-(2-naphthyl)-acetonitrile. Yield: 88%. 
The product contained the R- and S-isomers at a 
ratio of 95 : 5. </p><head xml:id="_d4eb2">Example 7 </head><p xml:id="_311cc">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 6 except that furfural was 
used in place of the 2-naphthaldehyde, to give α-hydroxy-furfurylnitrile. 
Yield: 74%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 7 : 93. </p><head xml:id="_2a69f">Example 8</head><p xml:id="_d38d1">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap-S-Leu-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, an isobutyl group; R², a benzyl group; 
R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of 
the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe and 
that the stirring was continued at -20°C for 4 hours 
in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 93%. The product contained 
the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 87.5 : 12.5.  
 </p> <head xml:id="_59631">Example 9 </head> <p xml:id="_065dc">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that the stirring was 
continued at -20°C for 2.5 hours in place of -40°C 
for 3 hours, to give mandelmitrile. Yield: 97%. 
The product contained the R- and S-isomers at a 
ratio of 91 : 9. </p> <head xml:id="_dea19">Example 10</head><p xml:id="_486f6">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 3 except that the stirring was 
continued at -20°C for 4 hours in place of -40°C 
for 4 hours, to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 91%. 
The product contained the R- and S-isomers at a 
ratio of 91 : 9. </p><head xml:id="_16d9d">Example 11</head><p xml:id="_cba3d">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Ile-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹: a sec. butyl group; R² a benzyl group; 
R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of 
the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, to 
give mandelonitrile. Yield: 94%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 86.5 
: 13.5. </p><head xml:id="_f644b">Example 12</head><p xml:id="_c0f5d">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-t-Leu-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the 
formula [II]; R¹, a tert-butyl group; R², a benzyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; 
all of the absolute configurations thereof being 
S-isomers was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe,  
 
that methylene chloride was used in place of 
the toluene, and that the stirring was continued at 
-20°C for 4.5 hours in place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, 
to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 74%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 90 : 10. </p><head xml:id="_40578">Example 13</head><p xml:id="_9d81c">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Ala-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, a methyl group; R², a benzyl group; R³, a 
methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of the 
absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers was 
used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe and that 
the stirring was continued at -20°C for 4 hours in 
place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 80%. The product contained the R- and S-isomers 
at a ratio of 79.5 : 20.5. </p><head xml:id="_063ba">Example 14</head><p xml:id="_5375d">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Phe-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, a benzyl group; R², a benzyl group; R³, a 
methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of the 
absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers was 
used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe and that 
the stirring was continued at -20°C for 7.5 hours 
in place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 94%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 83.5 : 16.5. </p><head xml:id="_0ba4e">Example 15</head><p xml:id="_4a362">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Phe-NEt2, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula  
 
[II]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², a benzyl group; 
R³, a diethylamino group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all 
of the absolute configurations thereof being 
S-isomers was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C 
for 3 hours and further at -20°C for 15 hours in 
place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 88%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 90 : 10. </p><head xml:id="_8125c">Example 16</head><p xml:id="_ea9b8">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 4 except that m-phenoxybenzaldehyde 
was used in place of the 
benzaldehyde, and that the stirring was continued 
at -40°C for 11 hours and further at -20°C for 12 
hours in place of -40°C for 4 hours, to give α-hydroxy-m-phenylacetonitrile. 
Yield: 85%. The 
product contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio 
of 7 : 93. </p><head xml:id="_ff147">Example 17</head><p xml:id="_eeae1">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 3 except that cyclohexanecarboaldehyde 
was used in place of the benzaldehyde, 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C for 
1.5 hours in place of -40°C for 4 hours, to give 
α-hydroxy-cyclohexylacetonitrile. Yield: 99%. 
The product contained the R- and S-isomers at a 
ratio of 77 : 23. </p><p xml:id="_9e51a">In this connection, the ratio of the R-and 
S-isomers was determined by gas chromatography 
of the corresponding diastereomers, (+)-1-methoxy-1-phenyl-2,2,2-trifluoro-propionic 
acid 
ester derived from the product.  
 </p><head xml:id="_12ac6">Example 18</head><p xml:id="_caa8f">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that heptanal was 
used in place of the benzaldehyde, and that the 
stirring was continued at -40°C for 1 hour in place 
of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give 2-hydroxyoctanenitrile. 
Yield: 99%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 67 : 33. </p><p xml:id="_8681f">In this connection, the ratio of the R-and 
S-isomers was determined by gas chromatography 
of the corresponding diastereomers, (+)-1-methoxy-1-phenyl-2,2,2-trifluoro-propionic 
acid 
ester derived from the product. </p><head xml:id="_a0930">Example 19</head><p xml:id="_585c8">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Phe-OH, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², a benzyl group; 
R³, a hydroxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of 
the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers, 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, and 
that the stirring was continued at -20°C for 3 hours 
and further at 0°C for 16 hours in place of -20°C 
for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 
93%. The product contained the R- and S-isomers at 
a ratio of 71 : 29. </p><head xml:id="_e4116">Example 20</head><p xml:id="_4f2b3">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-PhGly-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, a phenyl group; R², a benzyl group; R³, a 
methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of the 
absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers was  
 
used in place of Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, and that the 
stirring was continued at -20°C for 20 hours in 
place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 62%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 62.5 : 37.5. </p><head xml:id="_ac29d">Example 21</head><p xml:id="_a7b21">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Val-S-PhGly-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the 
formula [II]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², a phenyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; 
all of the absolute configurations thereof being 
S-isomers was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, 
and that the stirring was continued at -20°C 
for 4 hours in place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, 
to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 86%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 62 : 
38. </p><head xml:id="_d3951">Example 22</head><p xml:id="_e9767">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 2 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Pro-OEt, 
i.e., the compound represented by the formula [Ia], 
was 
used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe and that 
the stirring was continued at -20°C for 20 hours 
in place of -20°C for 2.5 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 74%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 66.5 : 33.5. </p><head xml:id="_c40da">Example 23</head><p xml:id="_95ea5">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that the stirring was  
 
continued at -60°C for 16 hours in place of -40°C 
for 3 hours, to give mandelonitrile. Yield: 83%. 
The product contained the R- and S-isomers at a 
ratio of 95 : 5. </p><head xml:id="_aa69a">Example 24</head><p xml:id="_ca8f2">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 3 except that titanium (IV) 
tetrabutoxide (0.05 mole) was used in place of the 
titanium (IV) tetraethoxide (0.05 mole) and that 
the stirring was continued at -20°C for 4 hours in 
place of -40°C for 4 hours, to give mandelonitrile. 
Yield: 84%. The product contained the R- and S-isomers 
at a ratio of 89 : 11. </p><head xml:id="_c4848">Example 25</head><p xml:id="_912f2">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap-S-Ile-S-Phe-OMe 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C for 4 
hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 85%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 87.5 : 
12.5. </p><head xml:id="_16d36">Example 26</head><p xml:id="_77f4d">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Val-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², an isopropyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; 
all of the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C 
for 4 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 64%. The product  
 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 93.5 : 
6.5. </p><head xml:id="_e3032">Example 27</head><p xml:id="_27ae5">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap-S-Val-S-Leu-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[II]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², an isobutyl group; 
R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; all of 
the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe and 
that the stirring was continued at -40°C for 4 
hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield: 72%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 79.5 : 
20.5. </p><head xml:id="_8cd0a">Example 28</head><p xml:id="_342db">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that m-methoxybenzaldehyde 
was used in place of the 
benzyldehyde, and that the stirring was continued 
at -40°C for 4 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours, 
to give α-hydroxy-(m-methoxyphenyl)-acetonitrile. 
Yield: 80%. The product contained the R- and S-isomers 
at a ratio of 92.5 : 7.5. </p><head xml:id="_73c1d">Example 29</head><p xml:id="_88365">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Sal-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[I]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², an indol-3-ylmethyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen 
atom; each of R⁵, R⁶, R⁷ and R⁸ is a hydrogen atom; 
all of the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe,  
 
and that the stirring was continued at -40°C 
for 4 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield 83%. The product contained the 
R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 89.5 : 10.5. </p><head xml:id="_80e5b">Example 30</head><p xml:id="_66756">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Nap'-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the formula 
[I]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², an indol-3-ylmethyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen 
atom; each of R⁵ and R⁶ is a hydrogen atom; R⁷ and 
R⁸ are bonded together at their terminals to form 
CH=CH-CH=CH; all of the absolute configurations 
thereof being S-isomers was used in place of the 
Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, and that the stirring was 
continued at -40°C for 2 hours in place of -40°C for 3 
hours to give mandelonitrile. Yield 57%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 87.5 : 12.5. </p><head xml:id="_cf1ba">Example 31</head><p xml:id="_fb79b">The procedure was conducted in the same 
manner as in Example 1 except that Sal'-S-Val-S-Phe-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the 
formula [I]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², a benzyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a hydrogen atom; 
each of R⁵, R⁶ and R⁷ is a hydrogen atom; R⁸ is a 
methoxy group; all of the absolute configurations 
thereof being S-isomers was used in place of the 
Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, and that the stirring was 
continued at -20°C for 4 hours in place of -40°C for 
3 hours to give mandelonitrile. Yield 68%. The product 
contained the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 74 : 26. </p><head xml:id="_8f758">Example 32</head><p xml:id="_9c748">The procedure was conducted in the same  
 
manner as in Example 1 except that Sal''-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, 
i.e., a compound represented by the 
formula [I]; R¹, an isopropyl group; R², an indol-3-ylmethyl 
group; R³, a methoxy group; R⁴, a 
hydrogen atom; each of R⁵ and R⁷ is a hydrogen 
atom; each of R⁶ and R⁸ is a tert-butyl group; all 
of the absolute configurations thereof being S-isomers 
was used in place of the Nap-S-Val-S-Trp-OMe, 
and that the stirring was continued at -20°C 
for 2.5 hours in place of -40°C for 3 hours to give 
mandelonitrile. Yield 70%. The product contained 
the R- and S-isomers at a ratio of 70 : 30. </p><p xml:id="_8d005">The catalyst of the present invention is 
useful for preparation of optically active 
cyanohydrins with a high yield and a high optical 
purity by an addition of hydrogen chanide to 
aldehydes. </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>