<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">24709054</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">US</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">67509991</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">US67509991A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">US</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">675099</idno><imprint><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">G01B7/08</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">G01B7/28</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">G01B7/287</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302026</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920310</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302026A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>BAKER RUSS J</persName><residence><address><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>BAKER, RUSS J.</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>BAKER, RUSS J.</persName><residence><address><addrLine>132 Overlook Drive</addrLine><settlement>Horseheads, New York 14845</settlement><country type="national">US</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>EMHART GLASS MACH INVEST</name><address><country type="national">US</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>EMHART GLASS MACHINERY INVESTMENTS INC.</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>DE</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>IT</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/06        20060101AFI20060310RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/287       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/28        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/02        20060101CFI20060310RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/02        20060101A I20070602RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">G01B   7/28        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Kalibrierungsverfahren zur Prüfung der Wanddicke von Behältern</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Calibration method for inspecting the wall thickness of containers</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Méthode de calibrage pour contrÔler l'épaisseur des parois de conteneur</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505075</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19960313</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505075B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e7c8c">Verfahren zum Kalibrieren einer Wanddicke-Prüfvorrichtung 
mit einem Sensor zur Abgabe einer Spannung, die der 
Dicke der gemessenen Wandung eines Glasbehälters entspricht, 
indem man 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) in die Vorrichtung einen Normalbehälter mit bekannter 
Kalibriernormaldicke einsetzt, </item><item>(b) die die bekannte Dicke darstellende Spannung 
mißt, </item><item>(c) die äquivalente Dicke eines nicht normgerechten 
Behälters nach der Formel 
äquivalente Dicke = ([Durchmesser des Kalibriernormals 
in mm - Behälterdurchmesser in mm] x 
0,0079 + 1) X Kalibriernormaldicke  
berechnet, </item><item>(d) die äquivalente Dicke und die repräsentierende 
Spannung in die Steuerung der Vorrichtung eingibt, um einen 
Bezugspunkt zu erzeugen, und 
   unter Verwendung der eingegebenen Bezugspunkte die 
Schritte (a), (b), (c) und (d) mindestens einmal wiederholt, 
um für den nicht normgerechten Behälter eine Kurve 
der Dicke als Funktion der erfaßten Spannung zu erzeugen. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_de41a">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1, bei dem man für jede Fühleranordnung 
mindestens vier Bezugspunkte in die Steuerung 
eingibt. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a825a">A method of calibrating a wall thickness 
inspection apparatus having a sensor for producing a voltage 
representative of the thickness of a sensed wall of a glass 
container 
   comprising the steps of 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) presenting a standard 
container having a known calibration standard thickness to 
the apparatus </item><item>(b) measuring the voltage representative of the known 
thickness </item><item>(c) calculating the equivalent thickness of a non-standard 
container by the formula 
Equivalent thickness = ([Calibration Standard Diameter 
in mm - Container Diameter in mm] x 0.0079 + 1) x 
Calibration Standard thickness </item><item>(d) entering the equivalent thickness and the 
representative voltage in control means of the apparatus to 
provide a reference point 
   repeating steps a, b, c and d at least once using the 
inputted reference points to provide a curve of thickness 
against sensed voltage for the non standard container. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c82f5">A method according to claim 1 wherein at least four 
reference points are inputted to the control system for each 
sensor apparatus. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c23aa">Procédé de calibrage d'un appareil d'inspection 
d'épaisseur de paroi ayant un capteur pour produire une 
tension représentative de l'épaisseur d'une paroi mesurée 
d'un récipient en verre 
comprenant les étapes de 
<list type="simple"><item>(a) présentation à l'appareil d'un récipient standard 
ayant une épaisseur standard de calibrage connue </item><item>(b) mesure de la tension représentative de l'épaisseur 
connue </item><item>(c) calcul de l'épaisseur équivalente d'un récipient non 
standard, par la formule 
Epaisseur équivalente = ([diamètre standard de calibrage 
en mm - diamètre de récipient en mm)] x 0,0079 + 1) x 
épaisseur standard de calibrage </item><item>(d) entrée de l'épaisseur équivalente et de tension 
représentative dans un moyen de commande de 
l'appareil pour fournir un point de référence, </item></list> 
répétition des étapes 
   répétition des étapes a, b, c et d au moins une fois 
à l'aide des points de référence entrée, pour fournir 
une courbe de l'épaisseur par rapport à la tension 
mesurée pour le récipient non standard. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_29114">Procédé selon la revendication 1, dans lequel au 
moins quatre points de référence sont entrés dans le 
système de commande pour chaque appareil capteur. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_68085">The present invention relates to systems for inspecting 
the wall thickness of formed glass containers. </p><p xml:id="_30c28">State of the art systems, 
for example, that disclosed in US-A-4 996 658, 
sense the wall thickness of 
formed glass containers and issue a voltage signal 
representative of that sensed thickness. Calibration 
standards are available in a limited number of diameters and 
each set of calibration standards provides four different 
reference voltage locations. Where the bottle to be formed 
is 3 1/2'' [8.89 cm] in diameter, for example, an operator 
can gauge from two to four of these reference locations on 
the 3 1/2"" [8.89 cm] standard and equate these to voltages. 
The control, based on this information, can define an 
equation for converting voltage to wall thickness. </p><p xml:id="_04d94">Where, however, the formed bottle has a diameter 
different than a calibration standard diameter the operator 
has to guess what the thickness will be for a given voltage 
reading and this guessing process has been very difficult in 
practice. </p><p xml:id="_72aa1">It is accordingly an object of the present invention to 
provide a straight forward approach to calibrate a 
conventional wall thickness inspection system. </p><p xml:id="_af7b2">The present invention provides a method of calibrating 
a wall thickness inspection apparatus having a sensor for 
producing a voltage representative of the thickness of a 
sensed wall of a glass container 
comprising the steps of 
(a) presenting a standard 
container having a known calibration standard thickness to 
the apparatus (b) measuring the voltage representative of the known 
thickness (c) calculating the equivalent thickness of a non-standard 
container by the formula  
 
Equivalent thickness = ([Calibration Standard Diameter 
in mm - Container Diameter in mm] x 0.0079 + 1) X 
Calibration Standard thickness (d) entering the equivalent thickness and the 
representative voltage in control means of the apparatus to 
provide a reference point 
   repeating steps a, b, c and d at least once using the 
inputted reference points to provide a curve of thickness 
against sensed voltage for the non standard container. </p><p xml:id="_c96b4">There now follows a description, to be read with 
reference to the accompanying drawings, of a preferred 
method of calibrating a wall thickness inspection apparatus. </p><p xml:id="_3db81">In the accompanying drawings 
Figure 1 is an oblique view of the inspection station 
of a glass container inspection machine; Figure 2 is a front view of the CRT screen of the 
computer which controls the inspection station shown in 
Figure 1; and Figure 3 is a logic diagram illustrating the invention. </p><p xml:id="_74dde">The glass container inspection machine has a station 
for testing a formed container or bottle (not shown - for 
calibration purposes a glass standard 10 will be tested) 
which is supported by a support plate 12 and which is 
advanced along the support plate 12 by a bottle carrier 14. 
During its displacement past the test station, the carrier 
14 forces the bottle against a number (three as illustrated 
in Figure 1 for purpose of clarity, but four can be used) of 
sensors in the form of parallel horizontally extending, 
vertically spaced capacitance sensing strips 16 which are 
secured to resilient foam strips 18 mounted on suitable 
brackets 20. The brackets are connected by posts 22 to 
corresponding head oscillator assembly housings 24. Each 
oscillator receives a capacitance signal from its associated 
capacitance sensing strip via a calibrated cable 26 and 
generates a continuous voltage signal which is supplied to a 
computer.  
 </p><p xml:id="_304dd">It has been discovered that an equation can be defined 
that will define the thickness of a non-standard bottle 
which when sensed by a sensor will result in the generation 
of a voltage signal equal to the voltage signal generated as 
a result of sensing the standard by the same sensor. This 
defined thickness is referred to as the "calibration 
thickness" or "equivalent thickness". This "calibration thickness" is a function of 
the container diameter (which is different than the diameter 
of one of the standards) and the thickness of the 
calibration standard. An algorithm which accurately 
represents this relationship for U.S. standard measures 
(inches) is: 
Calibration Thickness = [((Calibration Standard 
Diameter in inches - Container Diameter in inches) 
X 0.2) + 1] X Calibration Standard Thickness in 
mils, For the Metric System this equation is : Calibration Thickness = [((Calibration Standard 
Diameter in millimeters - Container Diameter in 
millimeters) X 0.0079) + 1] X Calibration Standard 
Thickness in millimeters. </p><p xml:id="_3c985">The following example shows how to use the calibration 
formula to compute a calibration thickness. The calculation 
here is for the first line under Channel 1 on the Calibrate 
Head Screen 30 of the controller. </p><p xml:id="_3360c">Calibration standards are glass tubes of standard 
diameter and known thickness. In this example the 
calibration standards are 2 1/2 inches [6.35 cm] in 
diameter. A first calibration standard has indicated 
portions of thickness .037" [.094 cm] and .062" [.157 cm], a 
second calibration standard has indicated portions of 
thickness .047'' [.119 cm] and .072'' [.183 cm].  
 </p><head xml:id="_cc129">STEP 1</head><p xml:id="_27f4a">Compute the difference between the container diameter 
and the Calibration Standard diameter. 
a. Calibration Standard Diameter in inches 
(millimeters)    2.5 (63.5 mm) b. Container Diameter in inches    2.75 (69.85mm) 
-(mm) c. Subtract Line b. from Line a. 
   (The result may be a negative 
number)    -0.25 (-6.35mm) </p><head xml:id="_4907e">STEP 2</head><p xml:id="_09cc6">Compute the thickness to be 
entered on the Calibrate Head 
Screen. 
a. Multiply by 0.2 (.0079) and 
add 1    .950 (.9498) b. Calibration Standard Thickness 
in mils (mm)    .037 (.940) c. Multiply Line a. by Line b. 
   Round to the nearest thousandth. 
   This is the calibration thickness 
to be entered on the Calibrate 
Head Screen    .035 (.893) </p><p xml:id="_e1aa7">The operator enters the calculated calibration 
thickness, i.e. .035in or .893 mm against channel 1, and 
then places the calibration standard against the sensor with 
the equivalent standard thickness (i.e. .037in, .940 mm) 
against the sensor and measures the output signal, which is 
2.56v. Consequently, for this sensor on the non-standard 
container a thickness of .035in (.893mm) is calculated to 
give an output signal of 2.56v. </p><p xml:id="_a5622">This process will be repeated at least one more time 
and preferably three more times to define four different 
calibration thicknesses for the first channel. This will 
then be repeated for each channel properly to calibrate the  
 
sensor. The computer can then, based on this data, define a 
curve used to convert voltage to wall thickness. </p><p xml:id="_2bd9a">Ideally, the actual bottle should be the size of the 
standard +/- one inch (2.54 cm). Figure 3 illustrates this 
sequence. </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>