<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">12981249</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">5481791</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">JP5481791A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">54817/91</idno><imprint><date>19910319</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">H01L21/8234B</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">H01L27/105C</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92302072</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920311</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92302072A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>TAGUCHI MINORU</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>TAGUCHI, MINORU</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>TAGUCHI, MINORU, C/O INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DIV.</persName><residence><address><addrLine>Toshiba Corporation, 1-1-1, Shibaura</addrLine><settlement>Minato-ku, Tokyo</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>TOSHIBA KK</name><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>KABUSHIKI KAISHA TOSHIBA</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>DE</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  27/085       20060101CFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  27/092       20060101AFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  27/105       20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/70        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/02        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/8234      20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  27/105       20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/339       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  21/8238      20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  29/762       20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">H01L  29/66        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Herstellungsverfahren einer integrierten Schaltung mit einer Ladungsverschiebeanordnung</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Method of manufacturing an integrated circuit having a charge coupled device</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Procédé de fabrication d'un circuit intégré comportant un dispositif à transfert de charges</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505081</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19980715</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505081B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1b08d">Verfahren zum Herstellen einer integrierten Schaltung mit einer
ladungsgekoppelten Vorrichtung und einem ersten MOS-Transistor, welches
folgende Schritte aufweist:
<list type="simple"><item>Bereitstellen eines Halbleitersubstrats (10) mit einer
Hauptoberfläche einschließlich eines ersten und eines zweiten Bereichs;</item><item>Bilden eines Antioxidations-Isolierfilms (18) auf der Oberfläche des
ersten Bereichs;</item><item>Selektives Bilden einer ersten Siliziumschicht auf dem
Antioxidations-Isolierfilm (18) zum Bilden einer unteren Gateelektrode (20)
der ladungsgekoppelten Vorrichtung;</item><item>thermisches Oxidieren der ersten Siliziumschicht zum Bilden einer
ersten Oxidfilms (22) mit einer ersten vorbestimmten Dicke;</item><item>Bilden einer leitenden Schicht als eine obere Gateelektrode (30) der
ladungsgekoppelten Vorrichtung in kontinuierlicher Art und Weise über dem
Antioxidations-Isolierfilm (18) und dem ersten Oxidfilm (22); und</item><item>Bilden eines Gateisolierfilms (54) des ersten MOS-Transistors einer
zweiten vorbestimmten Dicke auf der Oberfläche des zweiten Bereichs,
dadurch gekennzeichnet, daß der erste Oxidfilm (22) und der Gateisolierfilm
(24) in unabhängiger Art und Weise gebildet werden.</item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_394c2">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1, wobei die Siliziumschicht ebenfalls auf
der Oberfläche des zweiten Bereichs als eine Gateelektrode des MOS-Transistors
gebildet wird.</p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_87737">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1, wobei das Verfahren weiterhin folgende
Schritte aufweist:
<list type="simple"><item>Bereitstellen eines dritten Bereichs auf der Hauptoberfläche des
Halbleitersubstrats (10);</item><item>Bilden des Antioxidations-Isolierfilms (18) auf der Oberfläche des
dritten Bereichs; und</item><item>Selektives Bilden einer zweiten Siliziumschicht auf dem
Antioxidations-Isolierfilm (18) des dritten Bereichs als eine Gateelektrode
(52) eines zweiten MOS-Transistors.</item></list></p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_422e2">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1 oder 3, wobei die leitende Schicht
ebenfalls auf der Oberfläche des zweiten Bereichs als eine Gateelektrode
(28) des ersten MOS-Transistors gebildet wird.</p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_64206">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1 oder 3, weiterhin mit dem Schritt des
Bildens eines zweiten Oxidfilms (16) zwischen dem Halbleitersubstrat (10)
und dem Antioxidations-Isolierfilm (18).</p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_38ac9">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1 oder 3, wobei der Gateisolierfilm (24)
dünner als der erste Oxidfilm (22) ist.</p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4f16e">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1 oder 3, wobei die Antioxidations-Isolierfilm
(18) Siliziumnitrid aufweist, und der erste Oxidfilm (22)
Siliziumoxid aufweist.</p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_409aa">A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit having a charge coupled
device and a first MOS transistor, comprising the steps of:
<list type="simple"><item>preparing a semiconductor substrate (10) having a main surface including a
first and a second area;</item><item>forming an anti-oxidation insulating film (18) on the surface of the first area;</item><item>selectively forming a first silicon layer on the anti-oxidation insulating film (18) to
form a lower gate electrode (20) of the charge coupled device;</item><item>thermal oxidising the first silicon layer to form a first oxide film (22) having a first
predetermined thickness;</item><item>forming a conductive layer as an upper gate electrode (30) of the charge
coupled device continuously over the anti-oxidation insulating film (18) and the first oxide
film (22); and</item><item>forming a gate insulating film (24) of the first MOS transistor of a second
predetermined thickness on the surface of the second area, characterised in that the first
oxide film (22) and the gate insulating film (24) are formed independently.</item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6989a">A method according to claim 1, wherein the silicon layer is also formed on the
surface of the second area as a gate electrode of the MOS transistor.</p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_227af">A method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the
steps of:
<list type="simple"><item>preparing a third area on the main surface of the semiconductor substrate (10);</item><item>forming the anti-oxidation insulating film (18) on the surface of the third area;
and</item><item>selectively forming a second silicon layer on the anti-oxidation insulating film
(18) of the third area as a gate electrode (52) of a second MOS transistor.</item></list></p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1bb36">A method according to claim 1 or 3, wherein the conductive layer is also
formed on the surface of the second area as a gate electrode (28) of the first MOS
transistor.</p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_efb47">A method according to claim 1 or 3, further comprising a step of forming a
second oxide film (16) between the semiconductor substrate (10) and the anti-oxidation
insulating film (18).</p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_08b29">A method according to claim 1 or 3, wherein the gate insulating film (24) is
thinner than the first oxide film (22).</p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c8d91">A method according to claim 1 or 3, wherein the anti-oxidation insulating film
(18) comprises silicon nitride and the first oxide film (22) comprises silicon oxide.</p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e381b">Procédé de fabrication d'un circuit intégré comportant un dispositif
à couplage de charge et un premier transistor MOS, comprenant les étapes
de:
<list type="simple"><item>préparation d'un substrat semiconducteur (10) comportant une surface
principale incluant des première et seconde zones;</item><item>formation d'un film isolant anti-oxydation (18) sur la surface de la
première zone;</item><item>formation sélective d'une première couche de silicium sur le film
isolant anti-oxydation (18) afin de former une électrode de grille
inférieure (20) du dispositif à couplage de charge;</item><item>oxydation thermique de la première couche de silicium afin de former
un premier film d'oxyde (22) présentant une première épaisseur
prédéterminée;</item><item>formation d'une couche conductrice en tant qu'électrode de grille
supérieure (30) du dispositif à couplage de charge en continu au-dessus du
film isolant anti-oxydation (18) et du premier film d'oxyde (22); et</item><item>formation d'un film d'isolation de grille (24) du premier transistor
MOS d'une seconde épaisseur prédéterminée sur la surface de la seconde
zone, caractérisé en ce que le premier film d'oxyde (22) et le film
d'isolation de grille (24) sont formés indépendamment.</item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_28f6f">Procédé selon la revendication 1, dans lequel la couche de silicium
est également formée sur la surface de la seconde zone en tant qu'électrode
de grille du transistor MOS.</p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c99ef">Procédé selon la revendication 1, dans lequel le procédé comprend en
outre les étapes de:
<list type="simple"><item>préparation d'une troisième zone sur la surface principale du
substrat semiconducteur (10);</item><item>formation du film isolant anti-oxydation (18) sur la surface de la
troisième zone; et</item><item>formation sélective d'une seconde couche de silicium sur le film
isolant anti-oxydation (18) de la troisième zone en tant qu'électrode de
grille (52) d'un second transistor MOS.</item></list></p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8458b">Procédé selon la revendication 1 ou 3, dans lequel la couche
conductrice est également formée sur la surface de la seconde zone en tant
qu'électrode de grille (28) du premier transistor MOS.</p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_cbd3e">Procédé selon la revendication 1 ou 3, comprenant en outre une étape
de formation d'un second film d'oxyde (16) entre le substrat semiconducteur
(10) et le film isolant anti-oxydation (18).</p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0619d">Procédé selon la revendication 1 ou 3, dans lequel le film
d'isolation de grille (24) est plus mince que le premier film d'oxyde (22).</p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_af017">Procédé selon la revendication 1 ou 3, dans lequel le film isolant
anti-oxydation (18) comprend du nitrure de silicium et le premier film
d'oxyde (22) comprend de l'oxyde de silicium.</p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><head xml:id="_c0eee">BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION</head><head xml:id="_e0563">Field of the invention</head><p xml:id="_6a1dd">The present invention relates, in general, to integrated
circuits and methods for manufacturing thereof. More
specifically, the invention relates to a charge coupled
device (CCD) which has a lower gate electrode and an upper
gate electrode and a method for manufacturing thereof.</p><head xml:id="_07a7c">Description of the prior art</head><p xml:id="_55769">In general, a CCD device has a plurality of lower gate
electrodes and a plurality of upper gate electrodes. The
lower gate electrodes are formed on a semiconductor
substrate via a gate insulating film. The upper gate
electrodes are also formed on the semiconductor substrate
via a gate insulating film and are located between the lower
gate electrodes. The upper gate electrodes and the upper
gate insulating film are partly overhanging and adjacent to
lower gate electrodes. During the operation of the CCD, 
relatively high voltage (ex. 9 or 12 volts) is applied across each of the lower gate
insulating film and the upper gate insulating film.</p><p xml:id="_f2f0a">On the other hand, the CCD is usually formed with MOS transistors, each
having a gate insulating film, in the semiconductor substrate as an integrated circuit. In
this case, the gate insulating film of the MOS transistor is formed by the same process
as for either the lower gate insulating film or the upper gate insulating film. For
example, GB 1 418 231 discloses formation of a continuous non-oxidizable layer
forming the gate insulating film of the MOS transistor and the lower gate insulating
film and JP61-158170 discloses formation of the gate insulating film of the MOS
transistor simultaneously with formation of the upper gate insulating film. During the
operation of the MOS transistors, relatively low voltage (ex. 5 volts) is applied across
the MOS gate insulating film.</p><p xml:id="_de12d">In the prior art integrated circuit which has CCD and MOS transistors, if the
MOS gate insulating film is made thinner with the aim of increasing the integration of
MOS transistor portion according to the scaling rule, the lower gate insulating film or
the upper gate insulating film also becomes thinner due to the aforementioned
manufacturing process. In this type of CCD, it causes insulation breakdown in the
lower gate insulating film or the upper gate insulating film. Thus, increasing the
integration without causing insulation breakdown is difficult.</p><p xml:id="_c327f">In addition, because the lower gate insulating film and the upper gate insulating
film of the prior art CCD are formed in different manufacturing steps, it is difficult to
equalise the characteristics of the two insulating films of the CCD and to improve the
data transfer performance of the CCD.</p><p xml:id="_5a334">In addition, because the upper gate electrode is overlapped with the lower gate
electrode via the upper gate insulating film, insulation breakdown between lower and
upper gate electrodes of the prior art CCD may occur. </p><p xml:id="_bf361">Formation of a CCD and MOS transistor on a substrate, the CCD being
formed on a multilayer structure of a SiO2, SiN, SiO2 layers on a first area and the
MOS transistor being formed on a SiO2 layer on a second area of the substrate is
known from EP-A-0384692.</p><p xml:id="_ae6ad">It is an object of the present invention to provide a CCD which has high
breakdown voltage gate insulating film.</p><p xml:id="_0e4d1">It is another object of the present invention to provide a CCD which has
equalised characteristics of lower and upper gate insulating films.</p><p xml:id="_041f5">It is a further object of the present invention to provide an improved method
for manufacturing a CCD.</p><p xml:id="_f8df5">To accomplish the objects described above, the present invention provides a
method of manufacturing an integrated circuit having a charge coupled device and a
MOS transistor, comprising the steps of:
preparing a semiconductor substrate having a main surface including a first
and a second area;forming an anti-oxidation insulating film on the surface of the first area;selectively forming a silicon layer on the anti-oxidation insulating film to form
a lower gate electrode of the charge coupled device;thermal oxidising the silicon layer to form an oxide film having a first
predetermined thickness; forming a conductive layer as an upper gate electrode of the charge coupled
device continuously over the anti-oxidation insulating film and the oxide film; andforming a gate insulating film of the MOS transistor of a second
predetermined thickness on the surface of the second area, wherein the oxide film and
the gate insulating film are formed independently.</p><p xml:id="_5d239">The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
of the specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention, and, together with the
description, serve to explain the principles of the invention. Referring now to the
drawings, like reference characters designate like or corresponding parts throughout
the several views.</p> <p xml:id="_d6078">Of the drawings:
Fig. 1 to 8 are cross section views showing the steps for manufacturing the
first embodiment of this invention; and Fig. 9 to 16 are cross section views showing the steps for manufacturing the
second embodiment of this invention.  </p><head xml:id="_c0091">DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS</head><head xml:id="_57437">First Embodiment</head><p xml:id="_d4055">Figures 1 to 8 are respectively cross section drawings showing the
manufacturing process sequence for the integrated circuit concerned in a first
embodiment of this invention. </p><p xml:id="_bc92e">First, as shown in Figure 1, n type impurity ions are
implanted into the intended sites of formation of P-channel
MOS transistors in p type silicon substrate 10 of
resistivity approximately 20 [Ω·cm].</p><p xml:id="_de0b4">Next, n type well 12 is formed by thermal diffusion of
the implanted ions. Then, channel stopper 13 and field
oxide films 14 are formed on the surface of substrate 10 by
the local oxidation of silicon (LOCOS) method, which is one
of the most common isolation methods. Next, the surface of
silicon substrate 10 to be exposed is oxidized in a mixed
oxidation atmosphere of hydrochloric acid and oxygen, and
first silicon oxide film 16 is formed with a thickness of
approximately 70 [nm]. Then, silicon nitride film 18 with a
thickness of approximately 70[nm] is formed over first
silicon oxide film 16 by vapor phase reaction using a method
such as low-pressure chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD).
The formed insulating film composed by oxide film 16 and
nitride film 18 later becomes the gate insulating film of
the CCD.</p><p xml:id="_ea2e9">Next, as shown in Figure 2, phosphorus, which is an n
type impurity, is implanted into the intended site for the
formation of the CCD on substrate 10 so that the CCD will
become a buried channel type CCD, using a photo-resist (not
shown) as a mask.</p><p xml:id="_9b6ad">Then, an undoped first layer of polysilicon of thickness
approximately 400 [nm] is formed by the CVD method above 
substrate 10. Next, the first layer poly-silicon is made
n+ type, (conductive) by diffusing phosphorus, which is an n
type impurity, at a temperature of approximately 950°C.
Then, the first layer poly-silicon, which has been made n+
type, is patterned using photo-etching and reactive ion
etching (RIE) techniquies, and lower gate electrodes 20 of
the CCD are formed.</p><p xml:id="_90721">Next, as shown in Figure 3, the surfaces of the lower
gate electrodes 20 made of n+ type first layer polysilicon
are selectively oxidized in a mixed oxidation atmosphere of
hydrochloric acid and oxygen at a temperature of
approximately 950°C, using silicon nitride film 18 as an anti-oxidation
insulating film. By this means, second silicon
oxide films 22 with a thickness of approximately 300 [nm]
are formed around the surfaces of lower gates 20. These
oxide films 22 later become the insulating films which
isolate the lower gates and the upper gates of the CCD.</p><p xml:id="_c5baa">Next, as shown in Figure 4, silicon nitride film 18 on
the intended sites for the formation of the P-channel MOS
transistors and the N-channel MOS transitors is removed,
using a photo-resist (not shown) as a mask. Furthermore,
first silicon oxide 16 is also removed.</p><p xml:id="_ee096">Then, as shown in Figure 5, the exposed surfaces of
silicon substrate 10 are oxidized in a mixed oxidation
atmosphere of hydrochloric acid and oxygen at a temperature
of approximately 950°C, and third silicon oxide films 24 with 
thicknesses of approximately 45 [nm] are formed. These
oxide films 24 become the gate insulating films of the P-channel
and the N-channel MOS transistors. Next, ion
implantation for controlling the threshold voltages of the P-channel
and the N-channel MOS transistors and ion
implantation for making potential barriers for the CCD
(formed beneath the upper gates and not shown) are
respectively carried out by restricting the implantation
areas with photo-resists. The ion type used for both these
ion implantation is boron. Then, undoped second layer
polysilicon is formed above substrate 10 with a thickness of
approximately 400 [nm] by the CVD method. Next, this is
made n+ type by diffusing phosphorus, which is an n type
impurity, in the second layer polysilicon at a temperature
of approximately 950°C. Then, the second layer polysilicon
which has been made n+ type, is patterned by the RIE
technique using photo-resists 26 as masks, and gate
electrodes 28 of the P-channel and the N-channel MOS
transistors and upper gate electrodes 30 of the CCD are
formed.</p><p xml:id="_76bbe">Next, as shown in Figure 6, using an etchant which has a
high selectivity between silicon nitride film and silicon
oxide film, silicon nitride film 18 is selectively removed
from above the intended sites for the formation of the
source and the drain diffusion regions of the CCD, using
photo-resists 26 and the silicon oxide films as masks. </p><p xml:id="_3f710">Then, as shown in Figure 7, silicon oxide films 16 and
24, which are on the intended sites for the formation of the
source and the drain diffusion regions of the MOS
transistors and of the CCD, are selectively removed. After
this, photo-resist 26 is removed. Next, arsenic is
selectively ion-implanted, using a photo-resist (not shown)
as a mask, in order to form the source and the drain
diffusion regions of the N-channel MOS transistors and of
the CCD. Then, after the photo-resist has been removed, a
thin oxide film is formed at a temperature of approximately
900°C. Next, in order to form the source and the drain
diffusion region of the P-channel MOS transistor, boron is
selectively ion-implanted, using a photo-resist (not shown)
as a mask. N type diffusion regions 34 which become the
source and the drain diffusion regions of the N-channel MOS
transistor, n type diffusion regions 36 which become the
source and of the drain diffusion regions of the CCD, and p
type diffusion regions 32 which become the source and the
drain regions of the P-channel MOS transistor are
respectively obtained by these ion implantations.</p><p xml:id="_ccd80">Then, as shown in Figure 8, a CVD silicon oxide film is
formed over the whole surface of the substrate by the CVD
method. Next, a BPSG film is formed over this CVD silicon
oxide film by changing the gas. By this means, an inter-layer
insulating film 38 composed of the CVD silicon oxide
film and the BPSG film is formed. Then, this is heat-treated 
at a temperature of approximately 950°C. By this
heat-treatment, the smoothing of the inter-layer insulating
film 38 and phosphorus-gettering by the BPSG film are
performed while, at the same time, p type diffusion region
32 and n type diffusion regions 34 and 36 are activated.
Next, using photo-etching and RIE techniques, contact holes
passing through the inter-layer insulating film 38 on p type
diffusion region 32 and n type diffusion regions 34 and 36
are selectively opened. Then, an alloy made of aluminum
and silicon is deposited on the inter-layer insulating film
38, using the spattering technique. Next, this alloy film
is patterned using photo-etching and RIE techniques, and the
desired metal wiring 40 is formed. After this, the alloy
which forms metal wiring 40 is sintered in a mixed gas
atmosphere of nitrogen and hydrogen (forming gas) at a
temperature of approximately 450°C for about 15 minutes.</p><p xml:id="_3bf45">The integrated circuit concerned in the first embodiment
is formed by the above method.</p><p xml:id="_31b09">Using a device with the above construction, the gate
insulating films of the CCD can be made thick and can also
be made with silicon nitride film and silicon oxide film,
regardless of the film thickness of the gate insulating
films of the MOS transistors. By this means, the breakdown
voltage between lower and upper gates 20 arid 30 of the CCD
and substrate 10 is increased. Furthermore, the breakdown
voltage between lower gates 20 and upper gates 30 also are 
increased by second silicon oxide films 22 which have been
thickly formed using a silicon nitride film as the anti-oxidation
insulating film. From these results, the
breakdown voltage of the CCD is improved as a whole.</p><p xml:id="_4a265">Also, the gate insulating films of lower gates 20 and the
gate insulating films of upper gates 30 are composed of the
same material and are formed in the same process.
Therefore, there is no difference in the film qualities and
film thicknesses of the gate insulating films of the lower
and upper gates, and a CCD with high reliability and high
performance can be obtained. The yield is also increased.</p><p xml:id="_6c19d">In addition, in the CMOS circuit section composed of the
MOS transistors, a gate insulating film made from a third
silicon oxide film which is different from the gate
insulating films of the CCD can be obtained. For this
reason, its film thickness can be freely determined without
any interference with the formation of the CCD gate
insulating films and the film thickness can be made thinner.
By this means, the miniaturization of the MOS transistors
can be designed. Also, addition or expansion of functions
and speeding-up of operation in the integrated circuit can
be easily achieved.</p><head xml:id="_2bd8d">Second Embodiment</head><p xml:id="_020b8">The second embodiment is an example in which this
invention is applied to a integrated circuit provided with 
high breakdown voltage type MOS transistors for analog
circuits such as an output circuits of operational
amplifiers.</p><p xml:id="_a8e17">Figures 9 to 16 are respectively cross section drawings
showing the manufacturing process sequence for the
integrated circuit concerned in the second embodiment of
this invention. In Figures 9 to 16, the same reference
numbers are given to the same components as in Figure 1 to
8.</p><p xml:id="_c2286">First, as shown in Figure 9, n type wells 12 and 50 are
respectively formed in p type silicon substrate 10 by the
same method as that described in Figure 1. Next, after
field oxide films 14 have been formed, first silicon oxide
films 16 are formed on the surface of substrate 10 to be
exposed, and silicon nitride film 18 is continuously formed
on these.</p><p xml:id="_b3650">Then, as shown in Figure 10, an undoped first layer of
polysilicon of thickness approximately 400 [nm] is formed by
the CVD method above substrate 10, using the same method as
that described in Figure 2, and after this it is made n+
type (conductive). Next, the first layer polysilicon,
which has been made n+ type, is patterned using photo-etching
and RIE techniques, and lower gates 20 of the CCD
and gates 52 of high breakdown voltage type P-channel and N-channel
MOS transistors are respectively formed.</p><p xml:id="_e8a25">Then, as shown in Figure 11, the surfaces of lower gates 
20 and gates 52 only are selectively and comparatively
thickly oxidised, using silicon nitride film 18 as an anti-oxidation
insulating film, by the same method as that in
Figure 3, and second silicon oxide films 22 with a thickness
of approximately 300 [nm] are formed around the gates 20 and
52.</p><p xml:id="_f7439">Next, as shown in Figure 12, silicon nitride film 18 and
first silicon oxide film 16 on the intended sites for the
formation of the P-channel MOS transistor and the N-channel
MOS transistor other than the high breakdown voltage types
(hereafter called the common types) are removed, by the same
method as that described in Figure 4.</p><p xml:id="_40077">Then, as shown in Figure 13, third silicon oxide films 24
are formed on the intended sites for the formation of the
common type MOS transistors by the same method as that
described in Figure 5. Next, undoped second layer
polysilicon is formed above the substrate with a thickness
of approximately 400 [nm] by the CVD method. After this,
it is made n+ type. Then, second layer polysilicon which
has been made n+ type, is patterned by the RIE technique
using photoresists 26 as masks, and gates 28 of the common
type P-channel and N-channel MOS transistors and upper gates
30 of the CCD are formed.</p><p xml:id="_b2977">Next, as shown in Figure 14, silicon nitride film 18 is
selectively removed from above the intended sites for the
formation of the source and the drain diffusion regions of 
the high breakdown voltage type MOS transistors and the
source and the drain diffusion regions of the CCD, using an
etchant with high selectivity between silicon nitride film
and silicon oxide film and using photo-resists 26 and the
silicon oxide films as masks, by the same method as that
described in Figure 6.</p><p xml:id="_0de00">Then, as shown in Figure 15, silicon oxide films 16 and
24, which are on the intended sites for the formation of the
source and the drain diffusion regions of the MOS
transistors and of the CCD, are selectively removed by the
same method as that described in Figure 7. After this,
arsenic is selectively ion-implanted, using a photo-resist
(not shown) as a mask, in order to form the source and the
drain diffusion regions of the N-channel MOS transistors and
of the CCD. Then, after the photo-resist has been removed,
a thin oxide film is formed at a temperature of
approximately 900°C. Next, in order to form the source and
the drain diffusion regions of the P-channel MOS
transistors, boron is selectively ion-implanted, using a
photo-resist (not shown) as a mask. N type diffusion
regions 34 and 56 which become the source and the drain
diffusion regions of the N-channel MOS transistors, n-type
diffusion regions 36 which become the source and the drain
diffusion regions of the CCD, and p type diffusion regions
32 and 54 which become the source and the drain regions of
the P-channel MOS transistors are respectively obtained by 
these ion implantations.</p><p xml:id="_e4473">Then, as shown in Figure 16, inter-layer insulating film
38 composed of a CVD silicon oxide film and a BPSG film is
formed by the CVD method over the whole surface of the
substrate. Next, this is heat-treated and the smoothing of
the inter-layer insulating film 38 and phosphorus-gettering
by the BPSG film are performed while, at the same time, p
type diffusion regions 32 and 54 and n type diffusion
regions 34, 36 and 56 are activated. Next, contact holes
passing through the inter-layer insulating film 38 on the p
type diffusion regions 32 and 54 and n type diffusion
regions 34, 36 and 56 are selectively opened. After this,
an alloy made of aluminum and silicon is deposited on inter-layer
insulating film 38. Next, this alloy film is
patterned and the desired metal wiring 40 is formed. After
this, the alloy which forms metal wiring 40 is sintered.</p><p xml:id="_53c8d">The integrated circuit concerned in the second embodiment
is formed by the above method.</p><p xml:id="_c8cce">Using a device with the above construction, in the same
way as in the first embodiment, comparatively thick
insulating films can be formed for the gate insulating films
of the CCD, and thinner insulating films than these can be
formed for the gate insulating films of the common type MOS
transistors, respectively. Thus, improvement of the
breakdown voltage of the CCD and miniaturization of the CMOS
circuit section can be achieved. Furthermore, by using the 
silicon nitride film and the silicon oxide film which forms
the gate insulating films of the CCD as the gate insulating
film of the high breakdown voltage type MOS transistors,
there is no increase in processes, and the high breakdown
voltage type MOS transistors can be formed on the same chip.
These high breakdown voltage type MOS transistors can be
used in any desired CMOS analog circuit which uses high
breakdown voltage, such as output circuits of operational
amplifiers. Also, the above common type MOS transistors
can be used in CMOS digital circuits. By this means, CMOS
analog circuits can be formed with high breakdown voltage
MOS transistors and also CMOS digital circuits can be formed
with highly integrated, high operating speed MOS
transistors. Thus, an integrated circuit system with even
higher performance can be achieved.</p><p xml:id="_35061">The present invention has been described with respect to
specific embodiments. However, other embodiments based on
the principles of the present invention should be obvious to
those of ordinary skill in the art.</p><p xml:id="_4966b">For instance, n+ type polysilicon was used in the
conductive layer which forms the gates. However, it is
also possible to use such other materials as high melting
point metal silicides and laminated films of high melting
point metal silicides and polysilicon (polycides). Also, a
silicon nitride film was used as the anti-oxidation 
insulating film for selectively oxidizing only the surfaces
of the gates which were formed with these types of
conductive layer. However, it is also possible to use
other types of anti-oxidation insulating films. At this
time, it is desirable from the viewpoint of simplified
production processing and improved breakdown voltage that
the anti-oxidation insulating films have, as far as
possible, the same insulation as the silicon nitride film
and can be applied as the CCD and high breakdown voltage
type MOS transistor gate insulating films.</p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>