<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?><teiCorpus xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns:ext="http://exslt.org/common" xmlns:ng="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" xmlns:uuid="xalan://java.util.UUID" xml:space="preserve"><teiHeader type="family"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent family information</title><funder/><sponsor/></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/><availability status="restricted"/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><bibl type="patent-family"><idno type="family-id">12742447</idno></bibl><listBibl type="priority-claims"><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">4626791</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19910312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">JP4626791A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="national">JP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">46267/91</idno><imprint><date>19910312</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct></listBibl></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><textClass type="patent-classifications"><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M07D495/04</term></classCode><classCode scheme="EC"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">C07D495/04</term></classCode><classCode scheme="ICO"><orgName type="classification-scheme-office">EPO</orgName><term type="classification-symbol">M07D495/04+333B+221B</term></classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><teiCorpus><teiHeader type="application"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title>Patent application information</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="application" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">92301900</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">A</classCode><date>19920305</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="application" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="is-representative">NO</idno><idno type="docNumber">EP92301900A</idno></monogr></biblStruct><list type="additional-bibliographic-information"><item type="parties"><listPerson type="inventors"><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>HAYASHI HIROAKI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>KURODA TAKESHI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>MIWA YOSHIKAZU</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>NAKAJIMA HIROSHI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>OHMORI KENJI</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="epo"><persName>SUZUKI FUMIO</persName><residence><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>HAYASHI, HIROAKI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>KURODA, TAKESHI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>MIWA, YOSHIKAZU</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>NAKAJIMA, HIROSHI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>OHMORI, KENJI</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="intermediate"><persName>SUZUKI, FUMIO</persName></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>HAYASHI, HIROAKI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>151-12, Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho</addrLine><settlement>Sunto-gun, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>KURODA, TAKESHI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>1407, Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho</addrLine><settlement>Sunto-gun, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>MIWA, YOSHIKAZU</persName><residence><address><addrLine>1188, Shimotogari, Nagaizumi-cho</addrLine><settlement>Sunto-gun, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>NAKAJIMA, HIROSHI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>410-1, Nameri, Nagaizumi-cho</addrLine><settlement>Sunto-gun, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>OHMORI, KENJI</persName><residence><address><addrLine>2-14-3, Fuyodai</addrLine><settlement>Mishima-shi, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person><person role="inventor" type="original"><persName>SUZUKI, FUMIO</persName><residence><address><addrLine>18-4, Fujimidai</addrLine><settlement>Mishima-shi, Shizuoka-ken</settlement><country type="national">JP</country></address></residence></person></listPerson><list type="applicants"><item type="epo"><name>KYOWA HAKKO KOGYO KK</name><address><country type="national">JP</country></address></item><item type="intermediate"><name>KYOWA HAKKO KOGYO CO., LTD.</name></item></list></item><item type="designation-of-states"><list type="designation-epc"><item type="regional"><country>AT</country><country>BE</country><country>CH</country><country>DE</country><country>DK</country><country>ES</country><country>FR</country><country>GB</country><country>GR</country><country>IT</country><country>LI</country><country>LU</country><country>MC</country><country>NL</country><country>PT</country><country>SE</country></item></list></item></list></sourceDesc></fileDesc><profileDesc><langUsage><language ident="en">en</language></langUsage><textClass type="classifications-ipcr"><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P   3/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/44        20060101AFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/4353      20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  37/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/4365      20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07D 495/00        20060101C I20051008RMEP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  37/06        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61K  31/44        20060101CFI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P   3/00        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  19/10        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  37/02        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  19/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  43/00        20060101ALI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">A61P  43/00        20060101CLI20051220RMJP        </classCode><classCode scheme="ipcr">C07D 495/04        20060101A I20051008RMEP        </classCode></textClass></profileDesc></teiHeader><TEI><teiHeader type="publication"><fileDesc><titleStmt><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="de">Thienopyridinderivate und diese enthaltende pharmazeutische Zubereitungen</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="en">Thienopyridine derivatives and pharmaceutical compositions containing them</title><title type="invention-title" xml:lang="fr">Dérivés de la thiénopyridine et compositions pharmaceutiques les contenant</title></titleStmt><publicationStmt><authority/></publicationStmt><notesStmt/><sourceDesc><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="docdb" type="patent"><monogr><authority><orgName type="regional">EP</orgName></authority><idno type="docNumber">0505058</idno><imprint><classCode scheme="kindCode">B1</classCode><date>19970521</date></imprint></monogr></biblStruct><biblStruct status="publication" subtype="epodoc" type="patent"><monogr><idno type="docNumber">EP0505058B1</idno></monogr></biblStruct></sourceDesc></fileDesc></teiHeader><facsimile/><text><front/><group><text><body><div type="claims" xml:lang="de"><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_f0590">Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten : AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, PT, SE</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5abd0">Thienopyridinderivat der Formel (I): 
 
in der: 
<list type="simple"><item>einer der Reste A und B eine Gruppe der Formel -S- darstellt, und der andere eine Gruppe 
der Formel -CH= bedeutet; </item><item>R ein Wasserstoffatom oder einen C1-C6-Alkylrest darstellt, und </item><item>Z eine Pyridylgruppe bedeutet; oder </item></list> 
ein pharmazeutisch verträgliches Säureadditions- oder Metallsalz davon. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_28ca2">Verbindung nach Anspruch 1, wobei in der Formel A eine Gruppe der Formel -S- 
ist, und B eine Gruppe der Formel -CH= ist. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c2188">4-(n-Butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno-[3,2-b]-pyridin-6-carbonsäureamid 
und seine pharmazeutisch verträglichen Säureadditions- und Metallsalze. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_44c27">Arzneimittel, umfassend eine Verbindung oder ein Salz nach einem der Ansprüche 
1-3 im Gemisch mit einem pharmazeutisch verträglichen Träger oder Verdünnungsmittel. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_1c0cd">Immunregulierende pharmazeutische Zubereitung, umfassend eine Verbindung 
oder ein Salz nach einem der Ansprüche 1-3 als Immunregulator. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_857b2">Pharmazeutische Zubereitung gegen Osteoporose, umfassend eine Verbindung oder 
ein Salz nach einem der Ansprüche 1-3 als Mittel gegen Osteoporose.  
 </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_013ee">Zur Verwendung als Immunregulator: Verbindung oder Salz nach einem der Ansprüche 
1-3 . </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_70f66">Zur Verwendung als Mittel gegen Osteoporose: Verbindung oder Salz nach einem 
der Ansprüche 1-3 . </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_96384">Verbindung oder Salz nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 3 zur Verwendung als Arzneimittel. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8af07">Verwendung einer Verbindung oder eines Salzes nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 3 
zur Herstellung eines Immunregulators oder eines Mittels gegen Osteoporose. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_486c4">Verwendung einer Verbindung oder eines Salzes nach einem der Ansprüche 1 bis 3 
zur Herstellung eines Arzneimittels zur Unterdrückung des Immunsystems durch Inhibierung 
der Antikörperbildung. </p></div><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2916d">Patentansprüche für folgende Vertragsstaaten : ES, GR</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ca8a9">Verfahren zur Herstellung eines Thienopyridinderivats der Formel (I): 
 
in der: 
<list type="simple"><item>einer der Reste A und B eine Gruppe der Formel -S- darstellt, und der andere eine Gruppe 
der Formel -CH= bedeutet; </item><item>R ein Wasserstoffatom oder einen C1-C6-Alkylrest darstellt, und </item><item>Z eine Pyridylgruppe bedeutet; das die Umsetzung einer Verbindung der Formel (II): 
 
mit einem Amin der Formel (III) 
H2N-Z 
umfaßt, wobei in den Formeln (II) und (III) A, B, R und Z wie vorstehend definiert sind, und 
L ein Halogenatom, ein Alkoxy-, Aryloxy-, Alkanoyloxy- oder ein Aroyloxyrest ist. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ac4bb">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1, wobei die Umsetzung in Gegenwart einer Base durchgeführt 
wird. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e32e2">Verfahren nach Anspruch 1 oder 2, wobei die Umsetzung bei einer Temperatur im 
Bereich von -30 bis 200°C, bevorzugt -10 bis 100°C, durchgeführt wird. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2c42f">Verfahren nach einem der Ansprüche 1-3, wobei die Verbindung der Formel (I) als 
pharmazeutisch verträgliches Säureadditions- oder Metallsalz gewonnen wird oder anschließend 
darin umgewandelt wird.  
 </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ca0f6">Verfahren nach einem der Ansprüche 1-4, wobei in den Formeln A eine Gruppe der 
Formel -S- ist, und B eine Gruppe der Formel -CH= ist. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_fdbf0">Verfahren nach einem der Ansprüche 1-4, wie es auf die Herstellung der Verbindung 
4-(n-Butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno-[3,2-b]-pyridin-6-carbonsäureamid 
oder seiner pharmazeutisch verträglichen Säureadditions- oder Metallsalze angewendet 
wird. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_001a9">Verfahren nach einem der Ansprüche 1-6, das den weiteren Schritt des Mischens 
der Verbindung der Formel (I), gegebenenfalls nach deren Umwandlung in ein pharmazeutisch 
verträgliches Säureadditions- oder Metallsalz, mit einem pharmazeutisch verträglichen 
Träger oder Verdünnungsmittel umfaßt. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="en"><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_12d98">Claims for the following Contracting States : AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, PT, SE</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5993c">A thienopyridine derivative of the formula (I): 
 
wherein: 
<list type="simple"><item>one of A and B represents -S- and the other represents -CH=; </item><item>R represents hydrogen or C1 - C6 alkyl; and </item><item>Z represents pyridyl; or </item></list> 
   a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or metal 
salt thereof. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0adfa">A Compound according to claim 1, wherein, in said formula, A is - 
S-, and B is -CH=. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_5d855">4-(n-Butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide, 
and its pharmaceutically acceptable acid 
addition and metal salts. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b77c6">A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound or salt as 
defined by any one of claims 1-3 in a admixture with a pharmaceutically 
acceptable carrier or diluent. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_b5558">An immunoregulatory pharmaceutical preparation comprising as the 
immunoregulator a compound or salt according to any one of claims 1-3. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_0c719">An antiosteoporosis pharmaceutical preparation comprising as the 
antiosteoporosis agent a compound or salt according to any one of 
claims 1-3.  
 </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a7182">For use as an immunoregulator: a compound or salt as claimed in 
any one of claims 1-3. </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_59739">For use as an antiosteoporosis agent: a compound or salt as 
claimed in any one of claims 1-3. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d904e">A compound or salt according to any one of claims 1 to 3 for use 
as a pharmaceutical. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_345bd">Use of a compound or salt according to any one of claims 1 to 3 
in the manufacture of an immunoregulator or an antiosteoporosis agent. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e174f">Use of a compound or salt according to any one of claims 1 to 3 
in the manufacture of a medicament to suppress the immune system by 
inhibiting antibody production. </p></div><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c9b01">Claims for the following Contracting States : ES, GR</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_05b08">A method for the preparation of a thiefiopyridine derivative of the 
formula (I): 
 
wherein: 
<list type="simple"><item>one of A and B represents -S- and the other represents -CH=; </item><item>R represents hydrogen or C1 - C6 alkyl; and </item><item>Z represents pyridyl, which comprises reacting a compound of the 
formula II: 
 
with an amine of the formula [I] 
H2N - Z 
   where in said formula II and III A, B, R and Z are as defined 
above, and L is halogen, alkoxy, aryloxy, alkanoyloxy or aroyloxy. </item></list></p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d8fb9">A method according to claim 1, wherein the reaction is carried 
out in the presence of a base. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_9c42c">A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the reaction is 
performed at a temperature in the range -30 to 200°C, preferably -10 to  
 
100°C. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_f5b79">A method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein the compound 
of formula I is recovered as or is subsequently converted into a 
pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or metal salt. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_a9001">A method according to any one of claims 1-4, wherein in said 
formulae A is -S-, and B is -CH=. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_4e48b">A method according to any one of claims 1-4 as applied to the 
preparation of the compound 4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide,or 
its pharmaceutically 
acceptable acid addition or metal salts. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_2c10a">A method according to any one of claims 1-6, which comprises the 
further step of mixing the compound of formula I, optionally after 
conversion thereof into a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition or 
metal salt, with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. </p></div></div><div type="claims" xml:lang="fr"><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8ee4d">Revendications pour les Etats contractants suivants : AT, BE, CH, DE, DK, FR, GB, IT, LI, LU, MC, NL, PT, SE</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_58c24">Dérivé de thiénopyridine, de formule (I) : 
 
dans laquelle l'un des symboles A et B représente un 
chaínon -S- et l'autre représente un chaínon -CH=, R représente 
un atome d'hydrogène ou un groupe alkyle en C1-C6, 
et Z représente un groupe pyridyle, 
ou sel de métal ou d'addition d'acide d'un tel dérivé, 
admissible en pharmacie. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c0bf8">Composé conforme à la revendication 1, dans lequel, 
dans ladite formule, A représente un chaínon -S- et 
B représente un chaínon -CH=. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_39e22">4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thiéno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide, 
et ses sels 
de métal ou d'addition d'acide, admissibles en pharmacie. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_aa1bf">Composition pharmaceutique comprenant un composé 
ou un sel conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 3, mélangé 
avec un véhicule ou un diluant admissible en pharmacie. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d610a">Préparation pharmaceutique immunorégulatrice, qui 
contient, comme agent immunorégulateur, un composé ou un 
sel conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 3. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d01bb">Préparation pharmaceutiques anti-ostéoporose, qui 
contient, comme agent anti-ostéoporose, un composé ou un 
sel conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 3. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_6a6a6">Composé ou sel conforme à l'une des revendications 
1 à 3, destiné à être utilisé comme agent immunorégulateur.  
 </p></div><div n="8" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7a259">Composé ou sel conforme à l'une des revendications 
1 à 3, destiné à être utilisé comme agent anti-ostéoporose. </p></div><div n="9" type="claim"><p xml:id="_50a91">Composé ou sel conforme à l'une des revendications 
1 à 3, destiné à être utilisé comme agent pharmaceutique. </p></div><div n="10" type="claim"><p xml:id="_c3dbb">Utilisation d'un composé ou d'un sel conforme à 
l'une des revendications 1 à 3, pour la fabrication d'un 
agent anti-ostéoporose ou d'un agent immunorégulateur. </p></div><div n="11" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ba27f">Utilisation d'un composé ou d'un sel conforme à 
l'une des revendications 1 à 3, pour la fabrication d'un 
médicament immunodépresseur qui agit en inhibant la production 
d'anticorps. </p></div><div n="0" type="claim"><p xml:id="_7a840">Revendications pour les Etats contractants suivants : ES, GR</p></div><div n="1" type="claim"><p xml:id="_d1524">Procédé de préparation d'un dérivé de thiénopyridine, 
de formule (I) : 
 
dans laquelle l'un des symboles A et B représente un 
chaínon -S- et l'autre représente un chaínon -CH=, R représente 
un atome d'hydrogène ou un groupe alkyle en C1-C6, 
et Z représente un groupe pyridyle, 
qui comporte le fait de faire réagir un composé de formule 
(II) : 
 
avec une amine de formule (III) : 
H2N - Z 
dans lesquelles formules (II) et (III) A, B, R et Z ont 
les définitions indiquées ci-dessus et L représente un 
atome d'halogène ou un groupe alcoxy, aryloxy, alcanoyloxy 
ou aroyloxy. </p></div><div n="2" type="claim"><p xml:id="_e09cf">Procédé conforme à la revendication 1, dans lequel 
on effectue la réaction en présence d'une base. </p></div><div n="3" type="claim"><p xml:id="_65176">Procédé conforme à la revendication 1 ou 2, dans 
lequel on effectue la réaction à une température située 
dans l'intervalle allant de -30°C à 200°C, de préférence 
de -10°C à 100°C. </p></div><div n="4" type="claim"><p xml:id="_720b8">Procédé conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à  
 
3, dans lequel on récupère le composé de formule (I) sous 
la forme d'un sel de métal ou d'addition d'acide, admissible 
en pharmacie, ou l'on transforme ultérieurement ce 
composé en un tel sel. </p></div><div n="5" type="claim"><p xml:id="_ba52c">Procédé conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 
4, dans lequel, dans lesdites formules, A représente un 
chaínon -S- et B représente un chaínon -CH=. </p></div><div n="6" type="claim"><p xml:id="_325be">Procédé conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 
4, mis en oeuvre pour préparer du 4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thiéno[3,2-b]pyridine6-carboxamide, 
ou un sel de métal ou d'addition d'acide, 
admissible en pharmacie, de ce composé. </p></div><div n="7" type="claim"><p xml:id="_8bc3e">Procédé conforme à l'une des revendications 1 à 
6, qui comporte l'étape supplémentaire consistant à mélanger 
le composé de formule (I), après l'avoir éventuellement 
converti en un sel de métal ou d'addition d'acide, 
admissible en pharmacie, avec un véhicule ou un diluant 
admissible en pharmacie. </p></div></div><div type="description" xml:lang="en"><p xml:id="_26616">This invention relates to thienopyridine derivatives which 
are useful as immunoregulators and for the prevention and treatment 
of osteoporosis and pharmaceutical preparations containing them. </p><p xml:id="_d8e32">EP-A-0 059 698 discloses carboxamide compounds that 
apparently enhance cell-mediated immunity. These compounds are 
cyclic and include a benzene ring. </p><p xml:id="_f9798">Thienopyridine derivatives represented by Formula 
(A), possess the 4-hydroxythieno[2,3-b]pyridin-6-one 
skeleton and are described in J. Chem. Res. (S), 214 (1985) 
and J. Chem. Res. (S),122 (1986): 
 
wherein Ro represents hydrogen or methyl and Y represents 
hydrogen or ethoxycarbonyl. </p><p xml:id="_1a211">Furthermore, thienopyridine derivatives represented 
by Formula (B), possess the 7-hydroxythieno[3,2-b]-pyridin-5-one 
skeleton, and are described in J. Chem. Res. 
(S), 6 (1980) and J. Chem. Res. (S), 84 (1984): 
 
wherein Ro represents hydrogen or methyl and Y represents  
 
hydrogen, ethoxycarbonyl, nitrile, acetyl or the like. </p><p xml:id="_86caa">In compounds (A) and (B), their pharmacological 
activities are unknown. </p><p xml:id="_a109d">The present invention relates to thienopyridine 
derivatives [hereinafter referred to as Compound (I)] 
represented by formula (I): 
 
wherein one of A and B represents -S-, and the other represents 
-CH=; R represents hydrogen or lower alkyl, and Z 
represents pyridyl; or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt 
thereof. </p><p xml:id="_7c3b0">In the definition of each group in formula (I), 
the lower alkyl means a straight or branched alkyl having 
1 to 6 carbon atoms, such as methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, 
butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, 
neopentyl, hexyl, etc. </p><p xml:id="_b5202">The pharmaceutically acceptable salt of Compound 
(I) includes acid addition salts, metal salts, etc. The 
acid addition salt includes, for example, an inorganic acid 
salt such as hydrochloride, sulfate, phosphate, etc.; an 
organic acid salt such as acetate, maleate, fumarate, 
tartarate, citrate, etc. The metal salt includes for  
 
example, salts of alkali metal such as sodium, potassium, 
etc., salts of alkaline earth metal such as magnesium, 
calcium, etc.; aluminum salts, zinc salts and the like. </p><p xml:id="_eae01">Next, a process for preparing Compound (I) is 
described. </p><p xml:id="_fa5de">In the process shown below, in cases where the 
defined group(s) change under the conditions or are inappropriate 
for the practice of the process, the process can be 
easily operated by applying thereto means conventionally 
used in organic synthetic chemistry, for example, protection 
of functional groups, removal of protective groups, etc. </p><p xml:id="_8050c">Compound (I) may be obtained by reacting Compound 
(II) represented by formula (II): 
 
wherein L represents a leaving group; and A, B and R have 
the same significance as described above, with Compound 
(III) represented by formula (III): 
H2N - Z 
wherein Z has the same significance as described above, 
preferably in the presence of a base. </p><p xml:id="_4983d">Herein as the leaving group denoted by L, halogen 
such as chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.; alkoxy such as 
methoxy, ethoxy, etc.; aryloxy such as phenoxy, etc.; 
alkanoyloxy such as propionyloxy, etc.; aroyloxy such as 
benzoyloxy, etc. are used.  
 </p><p xml:id="_c1ac2">As the base, alkali metal bicarbonates such as 
sodium bicarbonate, potassium bicarbonate, etc.; alkali 
metal carbonates such as sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, 
etc.; alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride, 
etc.; alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide, 
sodium ethoxide, etc.; alkali metal salts such as butyl 
lithium, etc. are used. </p><p xml:id="_90807">As the solvent used in the reaction, any solvent 
may be usable, as long as it is inert to the reaction. 
For example, ethers such as tetrahydrofuran, dioxane, etc.; 
amides such as dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, etc.; 
ketones such as acetone, methyl ethyl ketone, etc.; alcohols 
such as methanol, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, etc.; halogenated 
hydrocarbons such as methylene chloride, chloroform, 
dichloroethane, etc.; esters such as ethyl acetate, etc.; 
aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, xylene, 
etc.; dimethylsulfoxide and the like may be used singly or 
in combination. </p><p xml:id="_722d2">The reaction is carried out at -30 to 200°C, 
preferably -10 to 100°C and generally completed in 30 
minutes to 20 hours. </p><p xml:id="_be8ea">The starting compound (II) can be synthesized by 
known methods [J. Chem. Res. (S), 6 (1980); ibid., 84 
(1984); ibid., 214 (1985); J. Chem. Res. (M), 113 (1980); 
ibid., 771 (1984); ibid., 2501 (1985)] or by a modified 
method of these methods. </p><p xml:id="_f7c8a">The desired product in the process described above 
can be isolated and purified by means of purification conventionally 
used in organic synthetic chemistry, for example, 
by filtration, extraction, washing, drying, concentration, 
recrystallization, various chromatographies, etc. </p><p xml:id="_8dcbd">Where it is desired to obtain the salts of Compound 
(I), Compound (I) may be purified as it is in case 
that Compound (I) is obtained in the form of its salt. In 
case that Compound (I) is obtained in its free form,  
 
Compound (I) is dissolved or suspended in an appropriate 
solvent and an appropriate acid or base is added to the 
solution or suspension to form its salts. </p><p xml:id="_fd512">Compound (I) and a pharmaceutically acceptable 
salt thereof may also be present in the form of addition 
products with water or various solvents. These addition 
products are also included in the present invention. </p><p xml:id="_291e9">Furthermore Compound (I) includes all possible 
steric isomers and mixtures thereof. </p><p xml:id="_c6e41">Specific examples of Compound (I) obtained by the 
process described above are shown in Tables 1 and 2. 
</p><p xml:id="_6a299">Next, the immunoregulating activity, activity of 
inhibiting bone absorption and acute toxicity of Compound 
(I) are described by referring to test examples. </p><head xml:id="_69385">Test Example 1 Plaque Forming Cell Assay</head><p xml:id="_dad17">The methods developed by Jerne [Science, 140, 405 
(1963)] and Yamamoto, et al[Drugs. Exptl. Clin. Res., 8, 
5 (1982)] were modified for plaque forming cell assay. </p><p xml:id="_d6730">That is, Balb/c strain male mice (age of 7 weeks, 
Charles River Japan Inc.) were sensitized with 1 x 108 
sheep red blood cells (Bio Test Research Institute) and  
 
the spleen was extirpated on the sixth or seventh day. The 
cells obtained from the spleen were treated with ACT solution 
(Tris-ammonium chloride isotonic buffer) to remove red 
blood cells. The cells were washed three times with RPMI1640 
medium (Nissui Pharmaceutical Co.). The cells (1 x107) 
were incubated in RPMI-1640 medium containing 10% calf 
fetal serum (Gibco Co.), 50 µg/ml streptomycin, 50 IU/ml of 
penicillin, 2-mercaptoethanol (5 x 10-5 M), sheep red blood 
cells (5 x 106 cells) and a test compound dissolved in 
dimethyl sulfoxide supplied on a microculture plate (NUNC 
Co., 24 wells) in a carbon dioxide gas incubator (TABAI 
ESPEC CORP) at 37°C for 5 days. </p><p xml:id="_a8041">After completion of the incubation, the cells were 
transferred to a plastic test tube and centrifuged at 2000 
rpm. After the supernatant was removed, the cells were 
resuspended in 1 ml of RPMI-1640 medium. The cell suspension 
was sealed in a Cunnigham chamber (Takahashi Giken 
Co.) together with sheep red blood cells and guinea pig 
complement (Cedarlane Research Institute) according to the 
method of Cunnigham [Immunology, 14, 599 (1968)] and 
incubated at 37°C for 1 to 2 hours. Direct plaque forming 
cell (PFC) count was counted. </p><p xml:id="_d1901">A rate of inhibiting antibody production by the 
test compound was determined by the following equation. 
Inhibition rate (%) = A - BA x 100 A :PFC count in the absence of test compound 
(dimethylsulfoxide alone) B :PFC count in the presence of test compound </p><p xml:id="_daaa2">The results are shown in Table 3.  
 
<figure><table cols="4"><row><cell>Compound No. </cell><cell>Concentration (M) </cell><cell>Direct PFC Count (mean ± S.E.M.) </cell><cell>Inhibition Rate (%) </cell></row><row><cell>Control</cell><cell/><cell>5023 ± 38 </cell></row><row><cell>3</cell><cell>10-4</cell><cell>101 ± 76</cell><cell>98.0 </cell></row><row><cell/><cell>10-5</cell><cell>59 ± 38</cell><cell>98.8 </cell></row><row><cell>4</cell><cell>10-4</cell><cell>336 ± 124</cell><cell>93.3 </cell></row><row><cell/><cell>10-5</cell><cell>395 ± 52</cell><cell>92.1 </cell></row><row><cell>5</cell><cell>10-4</cell><cell>109 ± 77</cell><cell>97.8 </cell></row><row><cell/><cell>10-5</cell><cell>227 ± 131</cell><cell>95.5 </cell></row><row><cell>6</cell><cell>10-4</cell><cell>42 ± 29</cell><cell>99.2 </cell></row><row><cell/><cell>10-5</cell><cell>59 ± 29</cell><cell>98.8 </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_edb87">Autoimmune diseases such as chronic articular 
rheumatism or the like are considered to result from tissue 
injury due to accentuation of B cells as the result of 
hypofunction of T cells. It is thus expected that Compound 
(I) would be effective against autoimmune disease by inhibiting 
antibody production. </p><head xml:id="_a7e8b">Test Example 2 Activity of inhibiting bone absorption</head><p xml:id="_c9836">A calvaria of a 5 to 6 day-old dd mouse was aseptically 
cut off, washed with Dulbecco's modified phosphate 
buffered saline not containing calcium and magnesium (manufactured 
by Gibco Oriental Co.) and separated along the 
sutura of its center. One half of the calvaria so separated 
was cultured in 1.5 ml of Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium 
(manufactured by Gibco Oriental Co.) containing 15% of 
thermally inactivated (at 56°C for 20 minutes) horse serum  
 
and 2.5% of fetal calf serum. The test compound was dissolved 
in dimethyl sulfoxide, and 10 µl (final concentration: 
1 x 10-4 M or 1 x 10-5 M) of the solution so prepared 
was added to the culture. Parathyroid hormone (human PTH 
1-34, manufactured by Sigma Co.) was dissolved in 0.15 M 
sodium chloride solution (pH 3), and 3 µl (final concentration: 
1 x 10-8 M) of the solution so prepared was added to 
the culture. The cultivation was carried out for 96 hours 
at 37°C in an atmosphere consisting of 95% of air and 5% 
of carbon dioxide. The culture medium was once replaced with 
a fresh one after 48 hours from the beginning of the cultivation. 
The concentration of dissolved calcium (i.e., 
absorption of bone) from the PTH-intensified bone was 
determined by measuring the quantity of calcium accumulated 
in the culture collected in 96 hours of cultivation, whereby 
the concentration of total calcium contained in the culture 
was measured with Calcium C-Test Wako (manufactured by Wako 
Pure Chemicals Co., Ltd.), and the inhibition rate was 
calculated therefrom in accordance with the equation set 
forth below. The results are shown in Table 4. 
Inhibition rate (%) = Cp - CdCp - Co x 100 Cd :Total calcium concentration in the culture 
treated with both test compound and PTH Cp :Total calcium concentration in the culture 
treated with PTH alone Co :Total calcium concentration in the culture 
treated with neither test compound nor PTH <figure><table cols="3"><row><cell>Compound No. </cell><cell>Concentration (µM) </cell><cell>Inhibition Rate (%) </cell></row><row><cell>1</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>-1 </cell></row><row><cell>2</cell><cell>100</cell><cell>51 </cell></row><row><cell>3</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>141 </cell></row><row><cell>4</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>58 </cell></row><row><cell>5</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>53 </cell></row><row><cell>6</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>38 </cell></row><row><cell>7</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>32 </cell></row><row><cell>8</cell><cell>10</cell><cell>18 </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_b1c62">Test Example 3 Acute toxicity test</head><p xml:id="_b7e8b">A test compound was orally administered to three 
dd-strain male mice weighing 20 ± 1 g. The minimum lethal 
dose (MLD) was determined by observing the mortality for 
7 days after the administration. </p><p xml:id="_d10b5">The results are shown in Table 5. 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Compound No. </cell><cell>MLD (mg/kg) </cell></row><row><cell>4</cell><cell>&gt; 300 </cell></row><row><cell>7</cell><cell>&gt; 300 </cell></row></table></figure></p><p xml:id="_37c9c">Compound (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable 
salt thereof may be used as it is, or in various pharmaceutical 
forms. The pharmaceutical composition of the 
present invention can be prepared by uniformly mixing an 
effective amount of Compound (I) or a pharmaceutically 
acceptable salt thereof as the active ingredient with pharmaceutically 
acceptable carriers. The pharmaceutical 
compositions are desirably in a single dose unit suited for 
oral or parenteral administration. </p><p xml:id="_17b5c">In preparing the composition suited for oral 
administration, any pharmaceutically acceptable carrier 
may be used. Liquid preparations suited for oral administration, 
for example, a suspension and a syrup can be 
prepared using water; sugars such as sucrose, sorbitol, 
fructose, etc.; glycols such as polyethylene glycol, propylene 
glycol, etc.; oils such as sesame oil, olive oil, 
soybean oil, etc.; antiseptics such as p-hydroxybenzoic 
acid ester, etc.; flavors such as strawberry flavor, pepper 
mint, etc. Further a capsule, a tablet, a powder and a 
granule can be prepared using an excipient such as lactose, 
glucose, sucrose, mannitol, etc.; a disintegrator such as 
starch, sodium alginate, etc.; a lubricant such as magnesium 
stearate, talc, etc.; a binder such as polyvinyl alcohol, 
hydroxypropyl cellulose, gelatin, etc.; a surfactant such 
as a fatty acid ester, etc.; a plasticizer such as 
glycerine, etc. A tablet and a capsule are most useful 
single dose unit for oral administration because their 
administration is easy. </p> <p xml:id="_764ac">Effective dose and number of administration of 
Compound (I) or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof 
may vary depending upon modes of administration, age and 
body weight, conditions, etc. of a patient but it is 
generally preferred to administer Compound (I) in a dose 
of 1 to 1,000 mg/60 kg by dividing into one to four times.  
 </p> <p xml:id="_25607">The present invention is described by referring 
to Examples and Reference Examples below. </p> <head xml:id="_8b59b">Example 1 </head><head xml:id="_d3407">4,5-Dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(3-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide 
(Compound 1)</head><p xml:id="_72938">A mixture of 2.43 g (10.2 mmols) of ethyl 4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxothieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxylate 
[J. Chem. Res. (S), 6 (1980); J. Chem. Res. (M), 113 
(1980)], 1.00 g (10.6 mmols) of 3-aminopyridine, 50 ml of 
xylene and 10 ml of dimethylformamide was heated at 140°C 
for an hour. After completion of the reaction, insoluble 
matters were filtered and recrystallized from dimethylformamide 
to give 1.56 g (yield: 54%) of Compound 1. 
<figure><table cols="4"><row><cell>Elemental analysis: C13H9N3O3S </cell></row><row><cell>Calcd. (%) :</cell><cell>C 54.35,</cell><cell>H 3.16,</cell><cell>N 14.63 </cell></row><row><cell>Found (%) :</cell><cell>C 54.11,</cell><cell>H 2.85,</cell><cell>N 14.48 </cell></row></table></figure>IR (KBr) cm-1:3450(br), 1638, 1594, 1547, 1480, 
1408, 1364, 1264, 1228, 799, 761 NMR (CF3 CO2 D) δ (ppm):9.79(1H, s), 8.81(1H, d, J= 
8.8Hz), 8.63(1H, d, J=5.1Hz), 8.15(1H, m), 8.10 
(1H, d, J=5.4Hz), 7.28(1H, d, J=5.4Hz) </p><head xml:id="_9a299">Example 2</head><head xml:id="_e2133">4,5-Dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide 
(Compound 2)</head><p xml:id="_2196c">A mixture of 2.48 g (10.4 mmols) of ethyl 4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxothieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxylate 
[J. Chem. Res. (S), 6 (1980); J. Chem. Res. (M), 113 
(1980)], 1.01 g (10.7 mmols) of 4-aminopyridine, 50 ml of 
xylene and 10 ml of dimethylformamide was heated at 140°C 
for an hour. After completion of the reaction, insoluble 
matters were filtered and tritylated with dimethylformamide 
with heating to give 1.99 g (yield: 67%) of Compound 2.  
 
<figure><table cols="4"><row><cell>Elemental analysis: C13H9N3O3S </cell></row><row><cell>Calcd. (%):</cell><cell>C 54.35,</cell><cell>H 3.16,</cell><cell>N 14.63 </cell></row><row><cell>Found (%):</cell><cell>C 54.31,</cell><cell>H 2.96,</cell><cell>N 14.45 </cell></row></table></figure>IR (KBr) cm-1:3440(br), 1662, 1632, 1575, 1536, 1498, 
1411, 1370, 1212, 1006, 826, 751 NMR (CF3 CO2 D) δ (ppm):8.64(2H, d, J=7.0Hz), 8.46 
(2H, d, J=7.0Hz), 8.11(1H, d, J=5.4Hz), 7.27(1H, 
d, J=5.4Hz) </p><head xml:id="_0839f">Example 3</head><head xml:id="_8aa82">4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide 
(Compound 3)</head><p xml:id="_a13c5">A solution of 1.18 g (4.00 mmols) of the Compound 
a obtained in Reference Example 1, 0.39 g (4.13 mmols) of 
4-aminopyridine and 20 ml of toluene was heated to reflux 
for 2 hours. After cooling, the reaction mixture was poured 
into 1 N sodium hydroxide aqueous solution, and washed 
twice with chloroform. 2 N Hydrochloric acid aqueous solution 
was added to the aqueous layer and the precipitated 
white crystals were filtered and dried to give 0.73 g 
(yield: 53%) of Compound 3. 
Melting point:211.9 -216.5°C MS (EI) m/e:343 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1:3420(br), 1661, 1617, 1591, 1546, 
1509, 1393, 1196, 796, 758 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):13.59(1H, s), 8.79(2H, d, J= 
6.6Hz), 8.38(1H, d, J=5.1Hz), 8.21(2H, d, J= 
6.6Hz), 7.57(1H, d, J=5.1Hz), 4.24(2H, t, J= 
7.6Hz), 1.66(2H, m), 1.40(2H, m), 0.93(3H, t, J= 
7.1Hz) </p><head xml:id="_1b240">Example 4</head><head xml:id="_40a1d">4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxo-N-(3-pyridyl)thieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxamide 
(Compound 4)</head><p xml:id="_16455">Compound 4 was obtained (yield: 72%) in a manner 
similar to Example 3 except for using 3-aminopyridine in 
place of 4-aminopyridine. 
Melting point:179.7 -182.6°C MS (EI) m/e:343 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1:3388, 1627, 1540, 1390, 798, 770, 668 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):13.03(1H, s), 9.20(,1H, d, J= 
2.2Hz), 8.62(1H, d, J=4.4Hz), 8.57(1H, dd, J= 
2.2Hz, 8.5Hz), 8.34(1H, d, J=5.4Hz), 7.90(,1H, dd, 
J=4.4Hz, 8.5Hz), 7.55(1H, d, J=5.4Hz), 4.24(2H, 
t, J=7.5Hz), 1.65(2H, m), 1.40(2H, m), 0.93(3H, 
t, J=7.3Hz) </p><head xml:id="_7f252">Example 5</head><head xml:id="_ff3a3">7-(n-butyl)-6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxamide 
(Compound 5)</head><p xml:id="_3477c">Compound 5 was obtained (yield: 78%) in a manner 
similar to Example 3 except for using Compound b obtained 
in Reference Example 2 in place of Compound a. 
Melting point:131.6 -139.4°C MS (EI) m/e:343 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1 :2952, 1614, 1507, 1380, 1289, 1229, 
1197, 834, 663 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ(ppm):13.34(1H, s), 8.78(2H, d, J= 
6.4Hz), 8.20(2H, d, J=6.4Hz), 7.48(1H, d, J= 
5.6Hz), 7.39(1H, d, J=5.6Hz), 4.13(2H, t, J= 
7.4Hz), 1.75(2H, m), 1.41(2H, m), 0.95(3H, t, 
J=7.3Hz) </p><head xml:id="_34752">Example 6</head><head xml:id="_afee5">7-(n-butyl)-6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-N-(3-pyridyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxamide 
(Compound 6)</head><p xml:id="_ec4cc">Compound 6 was obtained (yield: 76%) in a manner 
similar to Example 3 except for using Compound b obtained 
in Reference Example 2 in place of Compound a and using  
 
3-aminopyridine in place of 4-aminoyyridine. 
Melting point:158.0 -158.4°C MS (EI) m/e:343 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1:1616, 1585, 1561, 1542, 1535, 1482, 752 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):15.87(1H, s), 12.49(1H, s), 
8.80(1H, d, J=2.1Hz), 8.37(1H, d, J=3.7Hz), 8.11 
(1H, d, J=8.2Hz), 7.39-7.44(1H, m), 7.42(1H, d, 
J=5.5Hz), 7.35(1H, d, J=5.5Hz), 4.10(2H, t, J= 
7.5Hz), 1.74(2H, m), 1.40(2H, m), 0.95(3H, t, J= 
7.3Hz) </p><head xml:id="_a0416">Example 7</head><head xml:id="_06c8a">6,7-Dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-N-(4-pyridyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxamide 
(Compound 7)</head><p xml:id="_d0354">Compound 7 was obtained (yield: 58%) in a manner 
similar to Example 3 except for using ethyl 6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxylate 
[J. Chem. 
Res. (S), 214 (1985)] in place of Compound a. 
Melting point:&gt;300°C MS (EI) m/e:287 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1:1660, 1633, 1573, 1544, 1487, 1426, 
1356, 1009, 799, 560, 465 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):15. 58 (1H, bs), 12. 80-12. 98 (2H, 
m), 8.51(2H, d, J=6.4Hz), 7.64(2H, d, J=6.4Hz), 
7.29(2H, s) </p><head xml:id="_dc8eb">Example 8</head><head xml:id="_dd0fa">6,7-Dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxo-N-(3-pyridyl)thieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxamide 
(Compound 8)</head><p xml:id="_7bb65">Compound 8 was obtained (yield: 75%) in a manner 
similar to Example 3 except for using ethyl 6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxylate 
[J. Chem. 
Res. (S), 214 (1985)] in place of Compound a, and using 3-aminopyridine 
in place of 4-aminopyridine.  
 
Melting point:294.8 8 - 295.9°C MS (EI) m/e:287 (M+) IR (KBr) cm-1:1648, 1601, 1562, 1482, 1427, 1356, 
1263, 801, 554, 472 NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):15.85(1H, s), 12.97(1H, s), 
12.61(1H, s), 8.80(1H, d, J=2.5Hz), 8.37(1H, dd, 
J=1.1Hz, 4.7Hz), 8.04-8.13(1H, m), 7.42(1H, dd, 
J=8.2Hz, 4.5Hz), 7.29(1H, d, J=4.5Hz), 7.29(1H, 
dd, J=9.9Hz, 5.4Hz) </p><head xml:id="_848db">Example 9 Tablet</head><p xml:id="_b8b53">A tablet having the following ingredients is 
prepared in a conventional manner. 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Compound 1</cell><cell>50 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Lactose</cell><cell>60 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Potato starch</cell><cell>30 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Polyvinyl alcohol</cell><cell>2 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Magnesium stearate</cell><cell>1 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Tar pigment</cell><cell>trace </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_9428c">Example 10 Syrup</head><p xml:id="_9f9fe">A syrup preparation having the following ingredients 
is prepared in a conventional manner. 
<figure><table cols="2"><row><cell>Compound 2</cell><cell>50 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Refined sugar</cell><cell>30 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Ethyl p-hydroxybenzoate</cell><cell>40 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Propyl p-hydroxybenzoate</cell><cell>10 mg </cell></row><row><cell>Strawberry flavor</cell><cell>0.1 cc </cell></row><row><cell>Water is added until the total volume is 100 cc. </cell></row></table></figure></p><head xml:id="_fe4c6">Reference Example 1</head><head xml:id="_6eaa8">Ethyl 4-(n-butyl)-4,5-dihydro-7-hydroxy-5-oxothieno[3,2-b]pyridine-6-carboxylate 
(Compound a)</head><p xml:id="_a1d3d">A) To a solution of 15.7 g (0.100 mol) of methyl 
3-aminothiophene-2-carboxylate and 15.2 g (0.110 mol) of 
potassium carbonate in 200 ml of dimethylformamide was added 
34.1 ml (0.300 mol) of n-butyl iodide at 25°C. The mixture 
was stirred at 120°C for 10 hours. After cooling, the 
solvent was evaporated under reduced pressure and 200 ml of 
ethyl acetate was added to the residue. An inorganic salt 
was removed by filtration. The filtrate was again concentrated 
under reduced pressure. The residue was purified 
by silica gel column chromatography (eluting solvent: ethyl 
acetate/n-hexane = 1/9 v/v) to give 10.2 g (yield: 48%) of 
methyl 3-(n-butylaminothiophene-2-carboxylate (Compound a-1). 
NMR (CDCl3) δ (ppm):7.35(1H, d, J=5.3Hz), 7.01-7.30 
(1H, br), 6.98(1H, d, J=5.3Hz), 3.83(3H, s), 3.28 
(2H, m), 1.21-1.88(4H, m), 0.95(3H, t, J=7.5Hz) B) 10.0 g (46.9 mmols) of Compound a-1 was dissolved 
in a solvent mixture of 90 ml of 1,2-dichloroethane and 9 ml 
of 1,4-dioxane. 16.9 ml (0.141 mol) of trichloromethyl 
chloroformate was dropwise added to the solution at 25°C. 
The mixture was stirred at 75°C for 7 hours. After cooling, 
0.50 g of activated carbon was added to the reaction mixture 
followed by reflux for an hour in a nitrogen flow. After 
cooling, activated carbon was removed by filtration. The 
filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure and 15 ml 
of ethyl acetate and 50 ml of n-hexane were added to the 
residue. The mixture was then stirred. The precipitated 
white crystals were filtered and dried to give 6.96 g (yield: 
66%) of 4-(n-butyl)-5H-thieno[3,2-d]oxazine-5,7(4H)-dione 
(Compound a-2). 
NMR (CDCl3) δ (ppm):7.95(1H, d, J=5.0Hz), 6.97(1H, d, 
J=5.0Hz), 4.01(2H, t, J=7.2Hz), 1.17-1.98(4H, m), 
0.98(3H, t, J=7.4Hz) C) Under ice cooling, 552 mg (24.0 mmols) of sodium 
hydride was added to 67.4 ml (0.444 mol) of ethyl malonate. 
The mixture was stirred at 25°C for 30 minutes. To the 
solution mixture was added 5.00 g (22.2 mmols) of Compound 
a-2 and the mixture was stirred at 150°C for an hour. 
After cooling, 300 ml of water was added to the reaction 
mixture. The mixture was washed twice with chloroform and 
6 N hydrochloric acid aqueous solution was added to the 
aqueous layer. The precipitated crystals were filtered and 
dried to give 3.33 g (yield: 51%) of Compound a. 
NMR (CDCl3) δ (ppm):7.69(1H, d, J=5.0Hz), 7.02(1H, d, 
J=5.0Hz), 4.18(2H, q, J=7.0Hz), 3.64(2H, t, J= 
7.5Hz), 1.08-1.76(4H, m), 1.22(3H, t, J=7.0Hz), 
0.91(3H, t, J=6.1Hz) </p><head xml:id="_b1a16">Reference Example 2</head><head xml:id="_3cdbd">Ethyl 7-butyl(n-)-6,7-dihydro-4-hydroxy-6-oxothieno[2,3-b]pyridine-5-carboxylate 
(Compound b)</head><p xml:id="_b5615">A) Methyl 2-butyl(n-)aminothiophene-3-carboxylate 
(Compound b-1) was obtained (yield: 23%) in a manner similar 
to Reference Example 1,A) step except for using methyl 2-amino-3-thiopenecarboxylate 
[Chem. Ber., 98, 3571 (1965)] in place 
of methyl 3-aminothiophene-2-carboxylate. 
NMR (CDCl3) δ (ppm):7.08-7,38(1H, br), 7.03(1H, d, 
J=5.5Hz), 6.14(1H, d, J=5.5Hz), 3.83(3H, s), 3.23 
(2H, q, J=6.2Hz), 1.22-1.90(4H, m), 0.96(3H, t, 
J=7.4Hz) B) 7-(N-butyl)-6H-thieno[2,3-d]oxazine-4,6(7H)-dione 
(Compound b-2) was obtained (yield: 80%) in a manner similar 
to Reference Example 1,B) step except for using Compound b-1 in 
place of Compound a-1. 
NMR (CDCl3) δ(ppm):7.59(1H, d, J=5.2Hz), 6.30(1H, d, 
J=5.2Hz), 3.97(2H, t, J=7.0Hz), 1.15-1.93(4H, m), 
0.96(3H, t, J=7.4Hz) C) Compound b was obtained (yield: 92%) in a manner 
similar to Reference Example 1,C) step except for using 
Compound b-2 in place of Compound a-2. 
NMR (DMSO-d6) δ (ppm):7.34(1H, d, J=5.7Hz), 7.29(1H, 
d, J=5.7Hz), 4.32(2H, q, J=7.0Hz), 3.97(2H, t, 
J=7.3Hz), 1.60-1.71L2H, m), 1.30(3H, t, J=7.1Hz), 
1.26-1.40(2H, m), 0.92(3H, t, J=7.3Hz) </p></div></body></text></group></text></TEI></teiCorpus></teiCorpus>